Abstraction helps us handle complexity by hiding unnecessary details. 

### Abstraction vs Encapsulation

- Abstraction is about creating a simple interface for complex behavior. Focuses on what's exposed
- Encapsulation is about hiding internal state. If focuses on tucking implementation details away so no one depends on them.

Abstraction is more about reducing complexity,
Encapsulation is more about maintaining the integrity of system internals.

Abstraction emphasizes making usage easy
Encapsulation emphasizes hiding implementation details


### Are we encapsulating or abstracting?

``` python
import random

attack_damage = random.randrange(5)
```

Generating random numbers is a really hard problem.
The operating system uses the physical hardware of the computer to create a seed for the randomness.
However, the developers of the `random` library have abstracted that complexity away and encapsulated it within the simple `randrange` function.
We just say "I want a random number from 0 to 4" and library does it.

When writing libraries for use by other devs, getting abstractions right is crucial because changing them later can be disastrous. 
Imagine if the maintainers of the `random` module changed the input parameters to the `randrange` function! 
It would break code all over the world.

### Assignment
A `Human` class and its constructor have already been created.
We don't want other devs using our `Human` class about how humans move.
We'll abstract that away from them by encapsulating the private `__pos_x` `__pos_y` and `__speed` vars.

Complete these methods:

- `move_right()` : Adds the human's speed to its x position
- `move_left()` : Subtracts the human's speed to its x position
- `move_up()` : Adds the human's speed to its y position
- `move_down()` : Subtracts the human's speed to its y position
- `get_position()` : returns the x position and the y position as a tuple

``` python
class Human:
	def __init__(self, pos_x, pos_y, speed):
		self.__pos_x = pos_x
		self.__pos_y = pos_y
		self.__speed = speed

	def move_right(self):
		self.__pos_x += self.__speed

	def move_left(self):
		self.__pos_x -= self.__speed

	def move_up(self):
		self.__pos_y += self.__speed

	def move_down(self):
		self.__pos_y -= self.__speed

	def get_position(self):
		position = (self.__pos_x, self.__pos_y)
		return position
```


---
[[3.0_Abstraction]]
[[3.2_sprint]]