You can skip this step If you're on Mac OS or Linux, or already have WSL 2 configured.

The built-in Windows command line (which we'll explain more later) is terrible. It's so bad that if you're on Windows we're just going to have you install WSL 2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux). This will allow you to use your normal Windows desktop but also have a Linux command line, operating system, and filesystem for development.

WSL 2 was a huge step forward for developers on Windows, and in my opinion, is a much better experience than dual-booting. Don't worry, WSL is a Microsoft product that's built to work with Windows, it won't mess up your Windows install, and you'll still be able to run Steam.

Here are a couple of things to keep in mind about WSL 2:

There are two versions of WSL. We will be using the latest: version 2.
The WSL 2 filesystem is completely separate from your Windows file system. Use your normal Windows file system normally: for games, documents, windows apps, whatever. I recommend using the Linux filesystem for all your code.
INSTALL PROCESS

1. MAKE SURE YOU'RE ON WINDOWS 10 OR 11
If you are on an older version, please upgrade. Your life as a developer will not be fun if you're on an older version of Windows.

2. RUN WINDOWS UPDATE
Click on the start menu and begin typing "Windows update". You should see a program called "Windows Update Settings", open that. Click "check for updates", and if there are any updates, install them and restart your computer as instructed by the updater.

3. OPEN THE WINDOWS COMMAND PROMPT AND INSTALL WSL
3a. Click on the start menu and begin typing "cmd.exe". You should see a program called "Command Prompt", right-click on it and select "Run as administrator".

3b. Type wsl --install in the prompt and press enter.

3c. Restart your computer

3d. Confirm wsl is installed by running wsl -l -v in Command Prompt.

4. SETTING UP THE UBUNTU DISTRO
Ubuntu is a very popular distribution (or distro) of Linux, and it was installed automatically alongside WSL.

4a. After restarting your computer in step 3, you should see an "Ubuntu" Window open automatically once you log back in. If you don't, search for the "Ubuntu" program in the start menu and launch it.

4b. The Ubuntu window will prompt you to enter a username and password (which may not appear when typed). Make sure you remember these! These are the credentials for your Linux user. Later when you need to enter your password for certain commands, you'll need to enter this password. Note: by default Ubuntu only accepts usernames in lowercase.

Once you're logged in, you should see a command prompt! Go ahead and type:

```
echo "Hello world"
```

You should see the text "Hello world" printed to the console. If you do, you're good to move on to the next step.

HAVING TROUBLE?
Here is the link to the official installation guide. Take a look and see if you missed any steps. Ask in the Boot.dev Discord if you're still having trouble.

ERROR: A REQUIRED FEATURE IS NOT INSTALLED
Depending on the system you are working on you may run into an error telling you A required feature is not installed when attempting to start the virtual machine. To fix this you will need to enable Hyper-V (Virtualization). You can find this in your Windows features. You will need both Hyper-V Management Tools, and Hyper-V Platform enabled. You may also need to enable virtualization in your BIOS. If you are still having trouble, ask for help on the Boot.dev Discord.

---
[[1.2_Command_LinexGUI]]
[[1.4_What_Is_Terminal]]