You are probably using Bash or Zsh, and for this course, they're basically same. 

Both Bash and Zsh are shells, and they also happen to be powerful programming languages. 
They have variables, functions, loops, and more.
That said, only [crazy people](https://bashsta.cc/) write large programs in shell languages...
Shells are optimized for running other programs and writing small scripts, not for writing programs.

#### Create a Variable
``` bash
name="chicken"
```

#### Use a Variable
``` bash
echo $name
```

Unlike Python, in shell you need to prefix the variable with a ```$``` when u wanna use it.

#### Assingment
For the rest of this course you'll be a forensic developer. 
You've been hired by "WorldBanc" to internally investigate a security breach.
Like most mega-corps, they don't know what they're doing, but they're more than happy to overpay you to come in so that they can say a "third-party expert" has reviewed their systems.

Turns out, you're not an expert, but when you can learn on someone else's dime, why not jump at the opportunity? Right?

Anyhow, you'll be using your terminal and shell to traverse files, manipulate text, run programs, and find suspicious activity.

Paste the following
``` bash
bankname="WorldBanc"
founded="1969"
ceo="Jeff Gates"
```

Write and execute a bash command that will print out the following:

```
Worldbanc was founded in 1969 by Jeff Gates
```

Your command should dynamically use the variables from above.

---
[[1.5_What_is_Shell]]
[[1.7_History]]