In Functional programming, we strive to make data immutable.
Once a value is created, it cannot be changed.
Mutable data, on the other hand, can be changed after it's created. 

### Who cares?

Immutable data is easier to think about and work with. 
When 10 diff functions have access to the same variable, 
and you're debugging a problem with that variable, 
you have to consider the possibility that any of those functions could have changed the value.

When a variable is immutable, 
you can be sure that it hasn't changed since it was created.

It's helluva lot easier to work with. 

Generally speaking , immutability means fewer bugs and more maintainable code. 

### Tuple vs Lists

Tuples and lists are both ordered collections of values, but tuples are immutable and lists are mutable.

You can append to a list, 
but you can not append to a tuple.
You can create a new copy of a tuple using values from an existing tuple, 
but you can't change the existing tuple. 

#### Lists are mutable

``` python
ages = [16, 21, 30]
# 'ages' is being changed in place
ages.append(80) 
# [16, 21, 30, 80]
```

#### Tuples are immutable

``` python
ages = (16, 21, 30)
more_ages = (80,)
# note the comma! It's required for a single element tuple
# all_ages is a brand new tuple
all_ages = ages + more_ages
(16, 21. 30. 80)
```

### Assignment 
The `add_prefix` function accepts 2 arguments:

- "document" : a string
- "documents" : the current tuple of strings

It should do 2 things:

- Add a prefix of x. to the beginning of the new `document`, where x is the next index in the tuple. (The first doc should be `0.`) 
- Return the `documents` tuple with the new `document` added to the end.

1. Run the code to see the error. Whoever wrote this code assumed that `documents` is a list, but it's a tuple
2. Fix the bug. Instead of attempting to mutate the input tuple, create a brand new tuple with the new document added to the end and return that.

Code with but:

``` python
def add_prefix(document, documents):
    prefix = f"{len(documents)}. "
    new_doc = prefix + document
    documents.append(new_doc)
    return documents
```

Code fixed :

``` python
def add_prefix(document, documents):
    prefix = f"{len(documents)}. "
    new_doc = prefix + document
    documents += (new_doc,)
    return documents
```

---
[[1.2_Why-Python]]
[[1.4_Declarative-Programming]]