Functional programming tends to be popular amongst devs with a strong mathematical background.
After all, a math equation isn't procedural: it's declarative.
Take the following math equation: 

``` 
avg = Σx/N
```

To put this calculation in plain English:

1. `Σ` is just the Greek letter Sigma, and it represents "the sum of a collection".
2. `x` is the collection of numbers we're averaging.
3. `N` is the number of elements in the collection.
4. `avg` is equal to the sum of all the numbers in collection "x" divided by the number of elements in collection "x".

So the equation really just says that `avg` is the average of all the numbers in collection "x".
This math equation is a declarative way of writing "calculate avg of list of nums".
Here's some imperative Python code that does the same thing.

``` python
def get_average(nums):
	total = 0
	for num in nums:
		total += num
	return total / len(nums)
```

However, with functional programming, we would write declarative:

``` python
def get_average(nums):
	return sum(nums) / len(sums)
```

Here we're not keeping track of state (`total` variable is stateful).
We're simply composing functions together to get the result we want. 

### Assignment

In the world of document conversion, 
we sometimes need to handle fonts and font sizes.

Complete the `get_median_font_size` function.
Given a list of numbers representing font sizes, return the median of the list.

For example:

```
[1, 2, 3] => 2
[10, 8, 7, 5] => 7
```

Notice the second list is out of order. 

Order the list, (`sorted()`) then find the middle index and return the middle number.
If there is an even amount of numbers, return the smaller of the two middle numbers.
If the list is empty, just return `None`

Here are some useful docs:

- sorted()
- len()
- // (floor division)


// - floor division in python is a math operation that returns the largest integer less than or equal to the result of the division. Characteristics: 


1. Rounds down: Floordivision always rounds down to the nearest integer, discarding any fractional part.
2. Integer result: The result is always an integer
3. Equivalent to using `math.floor()` from python math module


To practice functional programming, 
code should not :
1. Use loops
2. Mutate any variables

### wwwicken function (long)

``` python
def get_median_font_size(font_sizes):
    if len(font_sizes) == 0:
        return None
    elif len(font_sizes) % 2 == 0:
        font_sizes_sorted = sorted(font_sizes)
        median = int(len(font_sizes) / 2 -1)
        return font_sizes_sorted[median]
    else:
        font_sizes_sorted = sorted(font_sizes)
        return font_sizes_sorted[int(len(font_sizes) / 2)]
```

### get median in list (ints)

``` python
def get_median_font_size(font_sizes):
    if len(font_sizes) == 0:
        return None
    return sorted(font_sizes)[(len(font_sizes) - 1) // 2]
```

`len(font_sizes) - 1` -> floor divides it (rounds down to nearest int) by 2 ->
uses it as an index [] for the sorted version of `font_sizes`

---
[[1.4_Declarative-Programming]]
[[1.6_Classes-vs-Functions]]