
The terms "data structures" and "algorithms" were designed to scare young CS students into eating their vegetables. After this course, you'll come to see there is nothing to fear. 

### Goals of This Course. 
1. Learn to think algorithmically. Break problems down into easier-to-solve parts. 
2. Learn to think about how to organize data for more efficient access. Break problems down into data models that make sense. 
3. Learn and practice performance optimization. Make your code run faster and more efficiently, even with more data. 

### What is a Data Structure?
Data structures are just organizational tools that allow for more advanced algorithms. You're already familiar with some of the simplest data structures:
- Lists: Ordered collections of data
- Dictionaries: Key -> value mappings
- Sets: Unordered collections of unique data
In this course we'll be exploring when you should use each of these, but we'll also cover more advanced structures like staacks, queues, aand trees. 

### What is an Algorithm?
An "algorithm" is just a set of instructions that can be carried out to solve a problem. People use algorithms all thhe time without eeven realizing it. Practically every function you write in code is an algorithm, even if it's a simple one. 

We are going to start by focusing on algorithms, then move onto data structures. While it may sound complicated, you'll be introduced to these concepts step by stepp. 

### A Word of Warning
Don't worry about memorizing this stuff. In particular, don't worry about memorizing the algorithms and data strucxtures themselves. My philosophy is that it's mostly aa waste of time to memorize anything that's a google search away. 

Instead, focus on understaanding how DSA works at the moment. You should understand whaat your code is doing and why - but that doesn't mean you need to memorize the code itself. 

---
[[0_index]]
[[1.2_Find-Minimum]]

