When you pass a value into a function as an argument, one of two things can happen:

- It's passed by reference: The function has access to the original value and can change it.
- It's passed by value: The function only has access to a copy. Changes to the copy within the function don't affect the original

*There is a bit more nuance, but this explanation mostly works.*

These types are passed by reference: 

- Lists
- Dictionaries
- Sets

These types are passed by value:

- Integers
- Floats
- Strings
- Booleans
- Tuples

Most collection types are passed by reference (except for tuples) and most primitive types are passed by value.

### Example of Pass by Reference (mutable)

``` python
def modify_list(inner_lst):
    inner_lst.append(4)
    # the original "outer_lst" is updated
    # because inner_lst is a reference to the original

outer_lst = [1, 2, 3]
modify_list(outer_lst)
# outer_lst = [1, 2, 3, 4]
```

### Example of Pass by Value (immuutable)

``` python
def attempt_to_modify(inner_num):
    inner_num += 1
    # the original "outer_num" is not updated
    # because inner_num is a copy of the original

outer_num = 1
attempt_to_modify(outer_num)
# outer_num = 1
```

### Assignment
We have a way for Doc2Doc users to set their supported formats in their settings. 
In memory, we store those settings as a simple dictionary:

``` python
settings = {
	"docx": True,
	"pdf": True, 
	"txt": False,
}
```

Unfortunately, there is a bug in our code! 
When a new format is added or removed, 
it not only updates the new dictionary, 
but it changes the defaults themselves!

We want to create a new dictionary with the updates, not change the original.

Fix the bug by making `add_format` and `remove_format` pure functions that don't mutate their inputs.

##### Tip
The `.copy()` method can be used to create a new copy of a dictionary.

### Default formats function boolean dictionary

```python
def add_format(default_formats, new_format):
    copy_default_formats = default_formats.copy()
    copy_default_formats[new_format] = True
    return copy_default_formats


def remove_format(default_formats, old_format):
    copy2_default_formats = default_formats.copy()
    copy2_default_formats[old_format] = False
    return copy2_default_formats
```

# 
---
[[3.2_Pure-Function-Review]]
[[3.4_Pass-By-Reference-Impurity]]