A no-op is an operation that does nothing.

If a function doesn't return anything, it's probably impure. If it doesn't return anything, the only reason for it to exist is to perform a side effect.

### Example No-Op

If a function doesn't return anything, it's probably impure. If it doesn't return anything, the only reason for it to exist is to perform a side effect.

``` python
def square(x):
    x * x
```

### Example side-effect

This function performs a side effect. It changes the value of the `y` variable that is outside of its scope. It's impure.

``` python
y = 5
def add_to_y(x):
    global y
    y += x

add_to_y(3)
# y = 8
```

The global keyword just tells Python to allow access to the outer-scoped `y` variable.

### print()

Even the print() function (technically) has an impure side effect! It doesn't return anything, but it does print text to the console, which is a form of i/o.

### Assignment

Complete the `remove_emphasis`, `remove_emphasis_from_line`, and `remove_emphasis_from_word` functions. They are currently no-ops.

`remove_emphasis` is the parent function. It takes a full document and removes any single or double `*` characters that are at the start or end of a word. (Emphasis in markdown)

For example, this:

``` 
I *love* markdown.
I **really love** markdown.
```

Should become:

``` 
I love markdown.
I really love markdown.
```

Write the helper functions, they will make the `remove_emphasis` function much easier to write:

The `remove_emphasis_from_line` function should remove emphasis from a single line of text.
The `remove_emphasis_from_word` function should remove emphasis from a single word.

#### Tip

For the sake of practice, try it without the `.replace()` string method. I used some of these built-ins:

- [[3.7.1_str.strip]]
- str.strip
- map
- join

### Fragmentation of document + Removing specific *chars* (from doc to lines to words, and back)

``` python
# removing '*' from word
def remove_emphasis_from_word(word):
    return word.strip('*')

# calling the word function for each line and putting it back together
def remove_emphasis_from_line(line):
    return ' '.join(map(lambda word: remove_emphasis_from_word(word), line.split()))

# calling the line function for each doc and putting it back together
def remove_emphasis(doc_content):
    if len(doc_content) == 0:
        return ''
    return "\n".join(map(lambda line: remove_emphasis_from_line(line), doc_content.split("\n")))
```

# 
---
[[3.6_Should-I-IO]]
[[3.8_Memoization]]

