Doc2Doc should be able to prepare and export a CSV file of whatever data you input. Comma-Separated Values are a ubiquitous text format that allows for information to be structured in a table. There is usually a header row, followed by data rows. Within rows, items are separated by commas.

### Assignment
Complete the `get_csv_status` function. It should use a match case statement to select the correct response depending on the status of the export operation. Create functions to handle each operation as follows:

#### PENDING:
Return a tuple with the string `"Pending..."` and the data converted from a list of lists of anything, to a list of lists of strings. Try to use nested map functions to convert the data items into strings. Remember to convert from a map object back into a list.

#### PROCESSING:
Return a tuple with the string `"Processing..."` and the data converted from a list of lists of strings into one string in CSV format.
- For each list of strings, combine the strings with `join` with commas inbetween to form a row.
- For each row string, combine the strings with `join` with newlines `"\n"` inbetween to form a table.
#### SUCCESS:
Return a tuple with the string `"Success!"` and simply return the data as is.

#### FAILURE:
Return a tuple with the string `"Unknown error, retrying..."` and the data after it has been prepared and processed into a CSV string, by combining the steps for `Pending` and `Processing`.

#### Any Other Status:
If the input status is none of the above, raise an `Exception` with the string `"Unknown export status"`.

#### Tip
It's better if you try this challenge without using loops for practice, but you may use loops.
``` python
from enum import Enum


class CSVExportStatus(Enum):
    PENDING = 1
    PROCESSING = 2
    SUCCESS = 3
    FAILURE = 4

def prepare_data(data):
	return list(map(lambda inner_list: list(map(lambda x: str(x), inner_list)), data))

def format_to_csv(data):
	return '\n'.join(map(lambda inner_list: ','.join(inner_list), data))

def get_csv_status(status, data):
    match (status):
	    case (CSVExportStatus.PENDING):
		    return ('Pending...', prepare_data(data))

	    case (CSVExportStatus.PROCESSING):
		    return ('Processing...', format_to_csv(data))

	    case (CSVExportStatus.SUCCESS):
		    return ('Success!', data)

	    case (CSVExportStatus.FAILURE):
		    return ('Unknown error, retrying...', format_to_csv(prepare_data(data)))

	    case _:
		    raise Exception('Unknown export status')
```
# 
---
[[9.4_Match]]
[[9.6_edit-document-challenge2]]