There are many cases in which normal users need elevated access.
The system admin can't always be there to enter in a rood passwd every time.
So there's special file perm bits to allow this behavior. 
The Set User ID (SUID) allows a user to run a program as the owner of the program.

when u change passwd, it's modifying a couple lines from the `etc/shadow` file...
but that file is `root` owned and no perms to write...

```
$ ls -l /etc/shadow
-rw-r----- 1 root shadow 1134 Dec 1 11:45 /etc/shadow
```

how it possible??

``` bash
ls -l /usr/bin/passwd
-rwsr-xr-x 1 root root 47032 Dec 1 11:45 /usr/bin/passwd
```

new permission spotted `s` 
This permission bit is the SUID, 
when a file has this permission set, allows users who launched program to get the file owner's permission as well as execution permission, in this case root. 
So essentially while a user is running the password command, they are running as root. 

That's whyy we are able to access a protected file like /etc/shadow when we run the passwd command. 
Now if you removed that bit, you would see you will not be able to modify /etc/shadow and therefore change your password. 

#### Modifying SUIs

Just like regular permissions there are two ways to modify SUID permissions:

*Symbolic* : 
`sudo chmod u+s myfile`

*Numerical* : 
`sudo chmod 4755 myfile` 

As you can see the SUID is denoted by a 4  and pre-pended to the permission set.
You may see the SUID denoted as capital `S` this means that it still does the same thing, 
but it does not have execute permissions. 


---
[[$$$/$cheats/$oss/$linux/1_linux-journey/6_permissions/6.4_umask]]
[[$$$/$cheats/$oss/$linux/1_linux-journey/6_permissions/6.6_setgid]]