Linux implements many UIDs.
There are three UIDS associated with every process: 

When u launch a process, it runs with the same permissions as the user or group that ran it, 
this is known as an effective User ID. 
This UID is used to grant access rights to a process. 
So naturally if Bob ran the touch command, the process would run as him and any files he created would be under his ownership.

There is another UID called the real user ID,
this is the ID of the user that launched the process.
These are used to track down who the user who launched the process is

One last UID is the saved User ID,
this allows a process to switch between the effective UID and real UID, vice versa.
This is useful cuz we don't want our process to run with elevated privileges all the time, 
it's just good practice to use special privileges at specific times. 

When running the `passwd` command, your effective UID is your user ID,
let's say its 500 for now, remember the passwd command has SUID enabled.
So when u run it, ur effective UID is now 0 (0 = root)
Now this program can access files as root.

Sally has a UID of 600. 
fortunately the process also has your real UID (500) 
It knows that your UID is 500 and therefore you can't modify the passwd of UID of 600.

Since you ran passwd, it will start the process off using your real UID, 
and it will save the UID of the owner of the file (effective UID) , 
so yoou can switch between the two. 
No need to modify all files with root access if it's not required.

Most of the time the real UID and the effective UID are the same,
but in such cases as the passwd command they will change.

---
[[$$$/$cheats/$oss/$linux/1_linux-journey/6_permissions/6.6_setgid]]
[[$$$/$cheats/$oss/$linux/1_linux-journey/6_permissions/6.8_the-sticky-bit]]