Even though iterating with linked lists kinda sucks compared to the simplicity of arrays (normal lists), we've got to do it. Although the implementation is more complex and slow, we can still make it easy for users of our class by providing an `__iter__` method. 

### The `yield` Keyword
The [`yield`](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/simple_stmts.html#grammar-token-python-grammar-yield_stmt) keyword in Python returns a value, kind of like `return`. However, it's used to turn the function into a [generator function](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-generator).

A generator function creates a new function object. When _that_ function is called, it executes the code in the generator function until it hits a `yield` statement. At that point, the function pauses and returns the value of the `yield` statement. The next time the function is called, it picks up right where it left off.

```py
def create_message_generator():
    yield "hi"
    yield "there"
    yield "friend"

gen = create_message_generator()
first = next(gen)
print(first)  # prints: hi
second = next(gen)
print(second)  # prints: there
third = next(gen)
print(third)  # prints: friend
```

Every time you call `create_message_generator()`, it creates a new [`generator`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/231855) instance. To continue from where you left off, you need to assign this generator to a variable (like gen in the example above). This way, when you use `next()` or loop over the generator, you’re continuing with the same instance rather than starting a new one.

## Assignment

The `LinkedList` class is a wrapper class that uses the `Node` class we already wrote.

1. [ ] **Complete the `__init__` method**. It should set the `head` field to `None`.

No other node points to the linked list's `head` (first) node, so the `LinkedList` class itself needs to keep track of it. We'll use the term `head` and `tail` like this:

`head node` -> `node` -> `node` -> `node` -> `tail node`

The direction of flow above might _feel_ opposite to what you're used to with a `Queue`, but it's really the same. Above I'm using arrows to show which nodes are pointing to which other nodes. In a future lesson when we implement a `Queue` using a `LinkedList`, we'll add elements to the `tail` and remove elements from the `head`.

2. [ ] **Complete the `__iter__` method**. It should be a generator function that `yield`s each node in the linked list, from the `head` to the `tail`. By [overriding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_overriding) the `__iter__` method, Python will allow us to use a `for` loop to iterate over the linked list:

```py
ll = LinkedList()
ll.add("first")
ll.add("second")
ll.add("third")
for val in ll:
    print(val)
```

- Create a reference to the `head` node (e.g. `node = self.head`)
- Use a `while` loop to iterate over the linked list until `node` is `None`
- Yield the current `node`
- Set `node` to the `next` node

``` python
from node import Node


class LinkedList:
    def __init__(self):
        self.head = None

    def __iter__(self):
        node = self.head
        while node != None:
            yield node
            node = node.next

    # don't touch below this line

    def __repr__(self):
        nodes = []
        current = self.head
        while current and hasattr(current, "val"):
            nodes.append(current.val)
            current = current.next
        return " -> ".join(nodes)
```
---
[[9.2_linked-list-vs-list]]
[[9.4_add-to-tail]]
