A closure is a function that references variables from outside its own function body. 
The function definition and its environment are bundled together into a single entity.

Put simply, a closure is just a function that keeps track of some values from the place where it was defined, 
no matter where it is executed later on. 

### Example
The `concatter()` function returns a function called `doc_builder` (higher-order functions) that has a reference to an enclosed doc value.

``` python
def concatter():
	doc = ""
	def doc_builder(word):
		# "nonlocal" tells Python to use the 'doc'
		# variable from the enclosing scope
		nonlocal doc
		doc += word + " "
		return doc
	return doc_builder

# save the returned 'doc_builder' function
# to the new function 'harry_potter_aggregator'
harry_potter_aggregator = concatter()
harry_potter_aggregator("Mr.")
harry_potter_aggregator("and")
harry_potter_aggregator("Mrs.")
harry_potter_aggregator("Dursley")
harry_potter_aggregator("of")
harry_potter_aggregator("number")
harry_potter_aggregator("four,")
harry_potter_aggregator("Privet")

print(harry_potter_aggregator("Drive"))
# Mr. and Mrs. Dursley of number four, Privet Drive
```

When `concatter()` is called, it creates a new 'stateful' function that remember the value of its internal `doc` variable. 
Each successive call to `harry_potter_aggregator` appends to that same `doc`.

#### nonlocal
Python has a keyword called nonlocal that's required to access variables from an enclosing scope. 
Most programming languages don't require this keyword, but Python does. 

### Assignment
Doc2Doc keeps track of hoow many words are in a collection of documents. 

Complete the `word_count_aggregator` function. 
It should return a function that calculates the number of words in its input (`doc`, a string). 
It should then add that number to an enclosed `count` value and return the new `count`. 
In other words, it keeps a running total of the `count` variable within a closure. 

### word count aggregating with nonlocal 

``` python
def word_count_aggregator():
    count = 0

	def count_words(doc):
		nonlocal count
		count += doc.split()
		return count
	return count_words
```

# 
---
[[6.0_Closures]]
[[6.2_closure-review]]