Remember, a closure is a function that retains the state of its environment. 
That makes it useful for tracking data as it changes over time, 
but it can comoe at the cost of understandability. 

When not to use the `nonlocal` keyword: 
when the variable is mutable (such as a list, dictionary or set),
and you are modifying its contents rather than reassigning the variable. 
You only need the `nonlocal` keyword if you are reassigning a variable instead of modifying its contents
(which you must do to change immutable values such as strings and integers).

EXTRA: Each closure maintains its own separate list! We couldn't achieve this same encapsulation with a simple global variable or a regular function. 

Think of each closure like a magic scroll that remembers its own contents, separate from other scrolls. Each time you call the function, it remembers what was written before and adds to it.  They give each collection its own private 'memory' of documents. 

Let's try a closure without the `nonlocal` keyword. 

### Assignment
Complete the new_collection function. 

It accepts a list of strings, `initial_docs`.

It should return a function that closes over a copy of `initial_docs`. 
This function should accept a string, 
append that string to the closed-over list, and return the new list. 

Do not modify the original `initial_docs` list.

#### Example usage

``` python
new_collection = new_collection(["doc1", "doc2", "doc3"])
print(new_collection("doc4"))
# ['doc1', 'doc2', 'doc3', 'doc4']
print(new_collection("doc5"))
# ['doc1', 'doc2', 'doc3', 'doc4', 'doc5']
```

### appending to list with closures
``` python
def new_collection(initial_docs):
    initial_docs_copy = initial_docs.copy()
    def append_doc(doc):
	    initial_docs_copy.append(doc)
	    return initial_docs_copy
	return append_doc
```


# 
---
[[6.2_closure-review]]
[[6.4_copy-paste-challenge1]]