[[4.1_Recursion]]
[[4.2_recursion-review]]
[[4.3_zipmap]]
[[4.4_recursion-quiz]]
[[4.5_nested-sum]]
[[4.6_recursion-review]]
[[4.7_recursion-on-a-tree]]
[[4.8_dangers]]
[[4.9_count-nested-levels-challenge1]]
[[4.10_recursive-string-reversal-challenge2]]

---
In computer science, recursion is a method of solving a computational problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the same problem. Recursion solves such recursive problems by using functions that call themselves from within their own code. The approach can be applied to many types of problems, and recursion is one of the central ideas of computer science. 

	the power of recursion evidently lies in the possibility of defining an infinite set of objects by a finite statement. In the same manner, an infinite number of computations can be described by a finite recursive program, even if this program contains no explicit repetitions. -- Niklaus Wirth, Algorithms + Data structures = Programs, 1976

Most computer programming languages support recursion by allowing a function to call itself from within its own code. Some functional programming languages (for instance, Clojure) do not define any looping constructs but rely solely on recursion to repeatdly call code. It is proved in computability theory that these recursive-only languages are Turing Complete; this means that they are as powerful (they can be used to solve the same problems) as imperative languages based on control structures such as `while` and `for`.

Repeatedly calling a function from within itself may cause the call stack to have a size equal to the sum of the input sizes of all involved calls. It follows that, for problems that can be solved easily by iteration, recursion is generally less efficient, and, for certain problems, algorithmic  or compiler-optimization techniques such as tail call optimization may improve computational performance over a naive recursive implementation.

### Types of Recursion
#### Single recursion and multiple recursion
Recursion that contains only a single self-reference is known as single recursion, while recursion that contains multiple self-references is known as multiple recursion. Standard examples of single recursion include list traversal, such as in a linear search, or computing the factorial function, while standard examples of multiple recursion include tree traversal, such as in a depth-first search.

Single recursion is often much more efficient than multiple recursion, and can generally be replaced by an iterative computation, running in linear time and requiring constant space. Multiple recursion, by contrast, may require exponential time and space, and is more fundamentally recursive, not being able to be replaced by iteration without an explicit stack. 

Multiple recursion can sometimes be converted to single recursion (and, if desired, thence to iteration). For example, while computing the Fibonacci sequence naively entails multiple iteration, as each value requires two previous values, it can be computed by single recursion by passing two successive values as parameters. This is more naturally framed as corecursion, building up from the initial values, while tracking two successive values at each step - see corecursion. A more sophisticated example involves a threaded binary tree, which allows iterative tree traversal, rather than muultiple recursion. 

#### Indirect recursion
Most basic examples of recursion, and most of the examples presented here, demonstrate direct recursion, in which a function calls itself. Indirect recursion occurs when a function is called not by itself buy by another function that it called (either directlyor indirectly). For example, if f calls f, that is direct recursion, but if f calls g which calls f, then that is indirect recursion of f. Chains of three or more functions are possible; for example, function 1 calls function 2, function 2 calls function 3 and function 3 calls function 1 again. 

Indirect recursion is also called mutual recursion, which is a more symmetric term, though this is simply a difference of emphasis, not a different notion. That is, if f calls g and then g calls f, which in turn calls g again, from the point of view of f alone, f is indirectly recursing, while from the point of view of g alone, it is indirectly recursing, while from the point of view of both, f and g are mutually recursing on each other. Similarly a set of three or more functions that call each other can be called a set of mutually recursive functions. 

#### Anonymous recursion
Recursion is usually done by explicitly calling a function by name. However, recursioon can also be done via implicitly calling a function based on the current context, which is particularly useful for anonymous functions, and is known as anonymous recursion. 

#### Structural vs. Generative recursion
Some authors classify recursion as either 'structural' or 'generative'. The distinction is related to where a recursive procedure gets the data that it works on, and how it processes that data:

	Functions that consume structured data typically decompose their arguments into their immediate structural components and then process those components. If one of the immediate components belongs to the same class of data as the input, the function is recurssive. For that reason, we refer to these functions as (STRUCTURALLY) RECURSIVE FUNCTIONS.
	--Felleisen, Findler, Flatt, and Krishnaurthi, How to Design Programs, 2001




---
[[3.0_Pure-Functions]]
[[5.0_Func-Trans]]