Recursion is a famously tricky concept to grasp, but it's honestly quite simple.
A recursive function is just a function that calls itself!

`Recursion is the process of defining something in terms of itself`

### Example of Recursion
If u thought loops were the only way to iterate over a list, you were wrong! 
Recursion is fundamental to functional programming because it's how we iterate over lists while avoiding stateful loops. 
Take a look at this function that sums the numbers in a list:

``` python
def sum(nums):
    if len(nums) == 0:
        return 0
    return nums[0] + sum(nums[1:])

print(sum([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]))
# 15
```

Breakin it down step by step: 

### 1. Solve a small problem
Our goal is to sum all the numbers in a list, but we're not allowed to loop. 
So, we start by solving the smallest possible problem: 
summing the first number in the list with the rest of the list:

``` python
return nums[0] + sum(nums[1:])
```

### 2. Recurse
So, what actually happens when we call `sum(nums[1:])`? Well, we're just calling `sum` with a smaller list! In the first call, the `nums` input was `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`, but in the next call it's just `[2, 3, 4, 5]`. We just keep calling `sum` with smaller and smaller lists. 

### 3. The base case
So what happens when we get to the 'end'? `sum(num[1:])` is called,
but `nums[1:]` is an empty list because we ran out of numbers. 
We need to write a base case to stop the madness. 

``` python
if len(nums) == 0:
	return 0
```

The "base case" of a recursive function is the part of the function that does not call itself. 

### Assignment
Doc2Doc can automatically gennerate various layouts for a page. 
There are a lot of possible layouts, so we need a factorial function to calculate the total number of possible layouts. 

	A factorial is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to a number. For example, 5! (read: 'five factorial') is 5 * 4 * 3 * 2 * 1, which is 120.

Complete the `factorial_r` function. It should recursively calculate the factorial of a number. 

#### Tips
1. What's a small problem you can solve first?
2. How can you go from the "first" value of `x` to the "next" value of `x`, all the way down to the "last" value of `x`?
3. What's the base case that should stop the recursion?
4. Since `0!` is an empty product, what should an input of `0` return?

### Factorial function with Recursion

``` python
def factorial_r(x):
    if x == 0:
        return 1
    return x * (factorial_r(x - 1))
```

# 
---
[[4.0_Recursion]]
[[4.2_recursion-review]]