The building blocks of a BST are Nodes. In our implementation, we will only use a single class, the `BSTNode` class. Any `BSTNode` is technically also a full Binary Search Tree, with itself as the root node (its not aware of any potential parents). All our methods that traverse the tree will do so recursivvely... have fun! `/s`

#### Our LockedIn `BSTNode`
Throughout this chapter we'll be building a binary search tree to power LockedIn's custom database. LockedIn's management doesn't trust so called "open-source" ... so here we are. One of the primary features of databases is the ability to look up records by a single key, and binary search trees are the most common way tom implement these fast lookups. 

Each node in out BST will represent a LockedIn user. A `BSTNode` has three properties:

- `value`: The value of the node, a `User` object in our case (see `user.py`). You'll notice that `User`s have a name and an ID. Comparison operators are already implemented for you on the class, so you should be able to compare `User` objects with =, <, and > directly. The ID is the value that we'll use to determine the order of the nodes in the tree. 
- `left`: The left child of the node, another `BSTNode` or `None`
- `right`: The right child of the node, another `BSTNode` or `None`

### Assignment
**Complete the `insert` method of the `BSTNode` class.** It takes a value as `User` class as input and adds it to a new node if the value doesn't already exist in the tree. 
- If the node doesn't have a value yet, just use the given value and be done
- If the node's value is equal to the given value, just be done, no duplicates allowed
- If the given value is less than the node's value and the node doesn't have a `left` child, create a new `left` child node with the given value. 
- If the given value is less than the node's value and the node does have a `left` child, recursively call `insert` on that left child with the given value. 
- Since we already checked if the given value is equal to or less than the node, the value must be greater than the node. Handle whether or not the node already has a `right` child

#### Tips
I'd highly recommend using pencil/paper or some kind of drawing tool to visualize the tree as you go through the assignments in this chapter. 

``` python
class BTSNode:
	def __init__(self, val=None)
		self.left = None
		self.right = None
		self.val = val

	def insert(self, val):
		if not self.val:
			# if there is no node -> create a node with val
			self.val = BSTNode(val)
			return

		if self.val == val:
			# if the node is the same as value, do nothing w val
			return 

		if val < self.val:
			if self.left is None:
				# if no node -> create a new node on the left child
				self.left = BSTNode(val)
			else:
				# if node -> recursive call on the left child
				self.left.insert(val)

		else: # val > self.val
			if self.right is None:
				# Create a new node on the right child
				self.right = BSTNode(val)
			else:
				# if there's a right node...
				# recursive call on the right child
				self.right.insert(val)
```

---
[[10.2_binary-trees]]
[[10.4_insert-review]]
