The Unix Philosophy is a simple set of principles that have guided the development of Unix-like OSs for decades.
It can be summarized as:
1. Write programs that do one thing and do it well.
2. Write programs to work to together.
3. Write programs to handle text streams, because that is a universal interface.

#### 1. Write Programs that do one thing and do it well.

This is why programs like ```ls```, ```grep```, ```less``` exist. 
They do one thing, and they do it well.
They don't try to do too much.
- ```ls``` lists files and dirs
- ```grep``` searches for text
- ```less``` displays text

#### 2. Write Programs To Work Together

Because at least according to the Unix Philosophy, programs should do one thing and do it well, it's easy to write programs that work together. 
For exampl, you can use ```grep``` to search for text in a file, and the pipe the output of ```grep ``` 
into ```less``` to display the results interactively.

``` bash
grep "hello" some_file.txt | less
```

#### 3. Write programs to Handle Text Streams
This point is  more the "how" of the previous point. 
Programs work together easily when they all use the same interface: text streams.
A text stream is just a sequence of characters that can be read or written sequentially.
In other words, a text stream is just text. 

This hearkens back to the point we talked about at the beginning of this course: 
the shell is a command line (text) interface. 
Text-based interfaces are much more powerful and extensible than graphic interfaces.
That's why devs have been using them for decades,
and why what we can do with them looks like magic to the unitiated.

---
[[4.19_Kill]]

