There are environment variables that are sort of "built-in" to your shell.
By "built-in" I just mean that different programs and parts of your system know about them and use them.
The ```PATH``` variable is one of those.

#### Why do we care?
If it weren't for the ```PATH```, you've have to remember the filesystem path of every executable you wanted to run. 
Instead of just running ```ls```, you'd have to run ```/bin/ls``` (or whatever the location of the ```ls``` executable is on your system.)

The ```PATH``` variable is a list of directories that your shell will look into when you try to run a command.
If you type ```ls```, your shell will look in each directory listed in your ```PATH``` variable for an executable called ```ls```
If it finds one, it will just run it. 
If it doesn't, it will give you an error like: "Command not found"

#### What's in the ```PATH``` Variable?
Take a look at your current ```PATH``` variable:

``` bash
echo $PATH
```

You should see a giant list of dirs separated by colons (```:```).
Each of those dirs is a place where your shell will look for executables.
For example, with a ```PATH``` like this: 

```
/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin
```

Your shell will look for executables in the following dirs:
- ```/usr/local/bin```
- ```usr/bin```
- ```bin```
- ```usr/sbin```
- ```sbin```

#### Assignment
As something of a security engineer yourself, you want to temporarily disable the ```PATH``` 
variable so that you can only run executables by using their full path.
You know, just so you don't accidentally run something you don't mean to.

Reset ```PATH``` to an empty string

``` bash
export PATH=""
```

*This will only affect your current shell session. If you open a new one, it will have it again.*

---
[[4.5_Env_Variables]]
[[4.7_Change_Your_Path]] 