First, restart your shell session to reset your ```PATH``` variable to its default.
A common problem you'll run into in the future is that you install a new program on your
machine, but when you try to run it from your terminal, you get an error like: 

``` bash
$ my-new-program
-bash: my-new-program: command not found
```

Nine times out of ten, this is because the program is installed in a location that's not in your ```PATH``` variable. 
Oftentimes when you install a program using the CLI, it will print a message during the installation process that tells you where the command was installed. 
**Don't let your eyes glaze over when your terminal prints important messages.**
Sometimes you just gotta read the fucking manual.

#### Assignment
The ```worldbanc``` dir that you downloaded has some executables that would be useful to have in your ```PATH``` so that you can run them from anywhere. 
Add the ```worldbanc/private/bin``` dir to your ```PATH``` variable. 
You'll need to add the absolute path, not the relative path (```pwd```).

To add a dir to your ```PATH``` without overwriting all of the existing directories, use the ```export``` 
command and reference the existing ```PATH``` variable:

``` bash
export PATH="$PATH:/path/to/new"
```

```$PATH``` part is a reference to the existing ```PATH``` variable.
The ```:``` separates the existing directories from the new directory that u adding.

Once you've done that ```cd``` into home dir

Then try running the ```worldbanc.sh``` CLI tool.
Follow the prompts, then copy the entire interaction.

---
[[4.6_Path]]
[[4.8_Path_Config]]