[[5.1_Unit_Tests]]
[[5.2_Debugging]]
[[5.3_Learning_Effectively]]
[[5.4_Debugging_Practice]]
[[5.5_Stack_Trace]]

---
## 5.1 add xp and level to give new xp

``` python
def total_xp(level, xp_to_add):
    old_xp = level * 100
    new_xp = xp_to_add + old_xp
    return new_xp
```

Complete the ```total_xp``` function. It accepts two integers as input:
- ```level```
- ```xp_to_add```

There are 100 xp per level. ```total_xp``` should convert the current `level` to xp, then add this current xp to the `xp_to_add` argument and return the player's total xp. For example:

- If a player is level 1 and gains 100 xp, they have 200 total xp.
- If a player is level 2 and gains 250 xp, they have 450 total xp.
- If a player is level 170 and gains 590 xp, they have 17590 total xp.

[[5.1_Unit_Tests]]

---
##  5.3 Applying Damage to player health 

``` python
def take_magic_damage(health, resist, amp, spell_power):
    max_damage = spell_power * amp
    total_damage = max_damage - resist
    new_health = health - total_damage
    return new_health
```

Complete the `take_magic_damage` function. 
Should return the new health after calculating the magic-type damage the player takes. 
Here is a description of the arguments:

- `health`: The player's starting health
- `resist`: The player's magic resistance. This reduces the damage they take by a static amount
- `amp`: The attacker's magic amplification. This increases the damage they deal by a multiplier
- `spell_power`: The base damage of the spell

Calculate the total maximum damage by multiplying the `spell_power` by the `amp`. 
Then, subtract the resist from the total damage to get the actual damage dealt. 
Apply that damage to the player's health and return the new health.

[[5.3_Learning_Effectively]]

---
## 5.7 Unlocking Achievement (with return message)

``` python
def unlock_achievement(before_xp, ach_xp, ach_name):
    new_xp = before_xp + ach_xp
    ach_message = f'Achievement Unlocked: {ach_name}'
    return new_xp , ach_message
```

Let's complete the `unlock_achievement` function. It accepts 3 arguments:
-  `before_xp`: int
- `ach_xp`: int
- `ach_name`: str

It should return 2 values:
- The player's xp after the achievement is unlocked (The sum of `before_xp` and `ach_xp`)
- An alert message that says `"Achievement Unlocked: ACHIEVEMENT_NAME"`, where `ACHIEVEMENT_NAME` is the name of the achievement 

[[5.5_Stack_Trace]]

---
[[4.0_Scope]]
[[6.0_Computing]]