By indexing keywords, documents are better organize, 
enabling users to navigate through their documents more efficiently. 
It also reduces the computational overhead of repeatedly searching for the same terms, 
improving the performance and responsiveness of Doc2Doc.
This is useful for notebooking, research and project management.

### Assignment
Complete the `find_keywords` function.
It takes as input a `document` string and returns a list of the keyword substrings in the `document` .
It should be a pure function that always returns the same results for the same input.

The `keywords` list is being modified at the start of code execution. 
Turn `find_keywords` into a pure function that does not rely on a global variable. 
`find_keywords` should only depend on data that is scoped inside of itself.

1. Filter the `keywords` to find the keyword substring *in* the `document`.
2. Be sure to return the found keyword substring as a list.

Fix the `index_keywords` function. 
It takes a string `document` input and a dictionary `index` input, 
and returns a list of `keywords` substrings found in the `document` and a dictionary `index` with the document added if needed. 
The `index` dictionary has `document` strings as keys, 
and their values are a list of `keywords` found in the key string, 
in the order they appear in the `keywords` list.

1. Do not modify or return the actual input `index`.
2. If the document is already in the index, return its keywords and the `index` copy.
3. Use `find_keywords` to get the keyword substrings in the `document`
4. Add the `document` and its keyword substrings to the `index` copy.
5. Return the `document`'s keyword substrings and the `index` copy.

#### Tip
Check the test suite to understand how variables are being changed in the global scope. 

#### Before

``` python
keywords = [
    "functional",
    "immutable",
    "declarative",
    "higher-order",
    "lambda",
    "deterministic",
    "side-effects",
    "memoization",
    "referential transparency",
]


def index_keywords(document, index):
    if document in index:
        return index[document], index
    found_keywords = find_keywords(document)
    index[document] = found_keywords
    return found_keywords, index


def find_keywords(document):
    pass
```

### Function for Keywords and Index (Dict) in Document (string)

``` python
def index_keywords(document, index):
    index_copy = index.copy()
    if document in index:
        return index[document], index_copy
    found_keywords = find_keywords(document)
    index_copy[document] = found_keywords
    return found_keywords, index_copy


def find_keywords(document):
    keywords = [
        "functional",
        "immutable",
        "declarative",
        "higher-order",
        "lambda",
        "deterministic",
        "side-effects",
        "memoization",
        "referential transparency",
    ] 
    return list(filter(lambda keyword: keyword in document, keywords))
```

# 
---
[[3.11_Sort-Dates-Challenge]]
[[3.0_Pure-Functions]]
