At its core, memoization is just caching (storing a copy of) the result of a computation so that we don't have to compute it again in the future.

For example:

``` python
def add(x, y):
	return x + y
```

A call to` add(5, 7)` will always evaluate to `12`. 
So, if you think about it, once we know that `add(5, 7)` can be replaced with `12`, 
we can store the value `12` somewhere in memory so that we don't have to do the operation again in the future.

Then, if we need to `add(5, 7)` again, 
we can just look up the value `12` instead of doing a (potentially expensive) CPU operation.

The slower and more complex the function, the more memoization can help speed things up.

Note: It's pronounced "memOization", not "memORization". 

### Assignment
Counting the words in a document can be slow, 
so we want to memoize it.

Complete the `word_count_memo` function.
It takes two inputs:

1. A `document` string.
2. A `memos` dictionary. The keys are full document strings, and the values are the word count of the document.

It should return two values:

1. The word count of the given document.
2. An updated `memos` dictionary.

Here are the steps to follow:

1. Create a `.copy()` of the `memos` dictionary.
2. If the document is in the `memos` dictionary, just `return` the associated word count and the `memos` copy. No need to recompute the word count.
3. Otherwise, use the provided `word_count` function to count the words in the given `document`.
4. Store the word count in the `memos` copy.
5. `return` the word count and the updated `memos` copy.

### Memoization Dictionary and updating it + word counting

``` python
def word_count_memo(document, memos):
	# creating a memos copy
    memo_copy = memos.copy()
    # checkin if document already in memos
    if document in memos:
	    # returning the value of document key in dictionary + memo_copy
        return memos[document], memo_copy
    # adding a new key value pair to our memos copy
    memo_copy[document] = word_count(document)
    # returning wordcount + our updated copy
    return word_count(document), memo_copy
    


# Don't edit below this line


def word_count(document):
    count = len(document.split())
    return count
```

# 
---
[[3.7_no-op]]
[[3.9_Referential_Transparency]]


