Encapsulation is the practice of hiding complexity inside a "black box"
so that it's easier to focus on the problem at hand.

The most basic example of encapsulation is a function.
The caller of a function doesn't need to worry too much about what happens inside, 
they just need to understand the inputs and outputs.

``` python
acceleration = calc_acceleration(initial_speed, final_speed, time)
```

To use the `calc_acceleration` function, we don't need to think about every individual line of code inside the function. 
We just need to know that if we give it the inputs: 

- `initial_speed` 
- `final_speed` 
- `time`
Then it will give us the correct `acceleration` as an output.

### Public and Private
By default, all the properties and methods in a class are *public* .
That means that you can access them with the `.` operator:

``` python
wall.height = 10
print(wall.height)
# 10
```

Private data members are how we encapsulate logic and data within a class. 
To make a property or method private, you just need to prefix it with two underscores.

``` python
class Wall:
    def __init__(self, armor, magic_resistance):
        self.__armor = armor
        self.__magic_resistance = magic_resistance

    def get_defense(self):
        return self.__armor + self.__magic_resistance

front_wall = Wall(10, 20)

# This results in an error
print(front_wall.__armor)

# This works
print(front_wall.get_defense())
# 30
```

We do this because, in this example `armor` and `magic_resistance` are implementation details.
After creating a `Wall` they don't matter anymore. 
Now the game devs can just call `get_defense` and not worry about how it's calculated.


### Creating Private Properties in a Class (__) 

Complete the `Wizard` class constructor.
It should set 2 private properties: 

- stamina
- intelligence

Don't forget to make them private.

It should also set 3 public properties:

- `name` : use the value passed into the constructor
- `health` : 100x the value of "stamina"
- `mana` : 10x the value of "intelligence"


``` python
class Wizard:
	def __init__(self, name, stamina, intelligence):
		self.__stamina = stamina
		self.__intelligence = intelligence
		self.name = name
		self.health = self.__stamina*100
		self.mana = self.__intelligence*10
```

---
[[2.0_Encapsulation]]
[[2.2_not-security]]

