The primary output of a static site generator is HTML (HyperText Markup Language), because HTML contains all the content of a web page.

HTML is a simple language for structuring content. It's not a "programming" language in the sense that it doesn't have variables, loops, or conditionals.

HTML is a way to format text, images, links, and other media so that a web browser can render it in a GUI. Here's a simple HTML file:

``` html
<html>
<head>
    <title>Why Frontend Development Sucks</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Front-end Development is the Worst</h1>
    <p>
        Look, front-end development is for script kiddies and soydevs who can't handle the real programming. I mean,
        it's just a bunch of divs and spans, right? And css??? It's like, "Oh, I want this to be red, but not thaaaaat
        red." What a joke.
    </p>
    <p>
        Real programmers code, not silly markup languages. They code on Arch Linux, not macOS, and certainly not
        Windows. They use Vim, not VS Code. They use C, not HTML. Come to the
        <a href="https://www.boot.dev">backend</a>, where the real programming
        happens.
    </p>
</body>
</html>
```

HTML is a tree-like structure where each "tag" (e.g. `<p>`, the bits enclosed in angle brackets) can contain other tags, and the whole thing is enclosed in an outermost `<html>` tag. Let's break down the structure of this HTML file:

`<html>` is the root element of the document.
`<head>` contains metadata about the document. Anything in the `<head>` is not rendered visibly in the browser window.
`<title>` is the title of the document, which is displayed in the browser tab.
`<body>` contains the content of the document, which is what is rendered in the browser window.
`<h1>` is a top-level heading.
`<p>` is a paragraph of text.
`<a>` is a hyperlink. The `href` attribute is the URL the link points to. Attributes are key-value pairs that provide additional information about an element, like `href="https://www.boot.dev"`.

### Assignment
Create a new directory in your project called `public` and save the HTML above into a file called `index.html` in the `public` dir.

Next use Python's built-in HTTP server to serve the contents of the `public` directory:

``` bash
cd public
python3 -m http.server 8888
```

Open your browser and paste in the URL of your server, `http://localhost:8888` if you used port `8888` as suggested into the address bar. You should see your file rendered as a webpage! While  the server is running, open a new terminal window. Run and submit the HTTP tests using the boot.dev cli.

---
[[1.1_Build-a-Static-Site-Generatorr]]
[[1.3_CSS]]

