Let's take an exponential time algorithm and fix it up so it can run in polynomial time.

The fibonacci sequence is a sequence of numbers where each number is the sum of the two numbers before it. Like this:

```
0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, ...
```
We want a function that, given an index in the sequence, returns the Fibonacci number at that index. For example:
- `fib(0)` -> 0
- `fib(1)` -> 1
- `fib(2)` -> 1
- `fib(3)` -> 2
- `fib(4)` -> 3
- `fib(5)` -> 5
- `fib(6)` -> 8
- `fib(7)` -> 13

Here are the implementation details to do it in polynomial time:

1. The input `n` represents the index of the desired Fibonacci number.
2. Initialize three variables: `grandparent = 0`, `parent = 1`, and a placeholder `current` to store the new Fibonacci number at each step.
3. Write a loop that iterates `n - 1` times. (For example, if `n = 2`, no iterations occur.)
4. Inside the loop:
    1. Set `current = parent + grandparent`
    2. Adjust the ancestor values (`parent` and `grandparent`) to maintain the sequence.
5. Once the loop completes, return `current`.

## Assignment

Our data scientists at LockedIn have found that the growth of the average influencer's follow count is roughly the same growth rate as the [Fibonacci](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number) sequence! In other words, after `6` weeks of good social media posts, the average influencer will have `8` followers. After `7` weeks, `13` followers, and so on.

The trouble is, our current implementation of the `fib` function takes _so long_ (exponential time!) to complete that when our influencers navigate to their analytics page it often never completes loading!

**Adjust the `fib` function using the given algorithm to achieve polynomial runtime**.

``` python
# starting code
deb fib(n):
	if n == 0:
		return 0
	if n == 1:
		return 1
	return fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2)
```
``` python
def fib(n):
    grandparent = 0 
    parent = 1
    current = 0
    if n == 0:
        return 0
    if n == 1:
        return 1
    for i in range(n - 1):
        current = parent + grandparent
        grandparent = parent
        parent = current
    return current
```
---
[[5.2_polynomial-time]]
[[5.4_order-2^n-exponential]]

