`O(2^n)` is the first Big O class that we've dealt with that falls into the scary exponential category of algorithms. 

Algorithms that grow at an exponential rate become impossible to compute after so few iterations that they are almost worthless in practicality. 

### Assignment
At LockedIn, we need to be able to compute the power set of a set of influencers. It has something to do with targeting segments of an audience with ads. 

A power set consists of all possible combinations of elements in a given collection. For example, the power set of `{1, 2, 3}` is:
``` 
{
	{}, 
	{1}, 
	{2}, 
	{3}, 
	{1, 2}, 
	{1, 3}, 
	{2, 3}, 
	{1, 2, 3},
}
```
We'll work with python lists instead of  sets for simplicity. 
	An empty set will just be an empty list: `[]`. 

Complete the `power_set` function using the following algorithm:
1. Check if the input list is empty. If it is, return a list containing an empty list. ( The power set of empty collection contains just the empty set) 
2. Otherwise, create a list that contains an empty list. This will hold the final collection of subsets. 
3. For each element in the input list: 
	1. Create a new empty list. this will hold the new subsets that include the current element. 
	2. Iterate over each existing subset:
		1. Create a new subset by adding the current element to the existing subset. 
		2. Append this new subset to the list of new subsets. 
	3. Extend the main collection of subsets with your newly created subsets
4. Return the final collection of subsets. 

### Observe
Notice how the `power_set()` output gets exponentially larger with each iteration because its complexity class is `O(2^n)`. 

If we could calculate one subset per millisecond, completing the `power_set()` of just `25` items would take approximately `9` hours, and that's not accounting for the massive amounts of memory we would need. `40` items would take over `34` years!

``` python
def power_set(input_set):
    set = [[]] # Start with the power set of an empty set (just the empty subset)
    if len(input_set) < 1: # if the input set is empty, return "[[]]"
        return set
    for s in input_set: # for each element in the input
        sset = [] # temporary list to hold new subset
        for ss in set: # iterate over all existing subsets
            new_subset = ss + [s] # create a new subset by adding 's'
            sset.append(new_subset) # store the new subset
        set.extend(sset) # add all new subsets to the main power set
    return set # return the complete power set
```

---
[[5.3_reduction-to-p]]
[[5.5_big-o-categories-review]]
