[kindle](https://leer.amazon.com.mx/?asin=B0053G0CRC&ref_=kwl_kr_iv_rec_1)
---
## *Andante ma non troppo e molto cantabile*

### 'A blood Dimmed Tide is Loosed'

#### *A Strange Case of Phatic communication*

The French suburban riots of autumn 2005 saw thousands of cars burning and a major outburst of public violence. Parallels were often drawn with the New Orleans looting after hurricane Katrina hit the city on 29 August 2005 and with the May '68 events in Paris. In spite of significant differences, lessons can be drawn from both parallels. The Paris fires had a sobering effect on those European intellectuals who had used New Orleans to emphasise the advantage of the European welfare state model over the wild capitalism of the US: now it was clear, such things could happen in welfare France, too. Those who had attributed the New Orleans violence to the lack of European-style solidarity were proved no less wrong then the US free-market liberals, who now gleefully returned the blow and pointed out how the very rigidity of state interventions which limit market competition and its dynamics prevented the economic rise of the marginalised immigrants in France - in contrast to the US where many immigrant groups are among the most successful. 

The parallels with May '68 make clear the total absence of any positive utopian prospect among the protesters: if May '68 make clear the total absence of any positive utopian prospect among the protesters: if May 68 was a revolt with a utopian vision, the 2005 revolt was just an outburst with no pretence to vision. If the much-repeated commonplace that we live in a post-ideological era has any sense, it is here. There were no particular demands made by the protesters in the Paris suburbs. There was only an insistence on *recognition*, based on a vague, unarticulated *ressentiment*. Most of those inteviewed talked about how unacceptable it was that the then interior minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, had called them 'scum'. In a weird self-referential short-circuit, they were protesting against the very reaction to their protests. 'Populist reason' here encounters its irrational limit: what we have is a zero-level protest, a violent protest act which demands nothing. There was an irony in watching the sociologists, intellectuals and commentators trying to understand and help. Desperately they tried to discern the meaning of the protesters' actions: 'We must do something about the integration of immigrants, about their welfare, their job opportunities,' they proclaimed- in the process they obfuscated the key enigma the riots presented. The protesters, although effectively underprivileged and de facto excluded, were in no way living on the edge of starvation. Nor had they been reduced to the level of bare survival. People in much worse material straits, let alone conditions of physical and ideological oppression, had been able to organise themselves into political agencies with clear or even fuzzy agendas. The fact that there was *no* programme behind the burning Paris suburbs is thus itself a fact to be interpreted. It tells us a great deal about our ideologico-political predicament. What kind of universe is it that we inhabit, which can celebrate itself as a society of choice, but in which the only option available to enforced democratic consensus is a blind acting out? The sad fact that opposition to the system cannot articulate itself in the guise of a realistic alternative, or at least a meaningful utopian project, but only take the shape of a meaningless outburst, is a grave illustration of our predicament. What does our celebrated freedom of choice serve, when the only choice is between playing by the rules and (self-) destructive violence? The protesters' violence was almost exclusively directed against their own. The cars burned and the schools torched were not those of richer neighbourhoods. They were part of the hard-won acquisitions of the very strata from which the protesters originated. 

What needs to be resisted when faced with the shocking reports and images of the burning Paris suburbs is what I call the hermeneutic temptation: the search for some deeper meaning or message hidden in these outbursts. What is most difficult to accept is precisely the riots' meaninglessness: more than a form of protest, they are what Lacan called a *passage a l'acte*- an impulsive movement into action which can't be translated into speech or thought and carries with it an intolerable weight of frustration. This bears witness not only to the impotence of the perpetrators, but, even more, to the lack of what cultural analyst Fredric Jameson has called 'cognitive mapping', an inability to locate the experience of their situation within a meaningful whole. 

The Paris outbursts were thus not rooted in any kind of concrete socio-economic protest, still less in an assertion of Islamic fundamentalism. One of the first sites to be burned was a mosque - which is why the Muslim religious bodies immediately condemned the violence. The riots were simply a direct effort to gain *visibility*. A social group which, although part of France and composed of French citizens, saw itself as excluded from the political and social space proper wanted to render its presence palpable to the general public. Their actions spoke for them: like it or not, we're here, no matter how much you pretend not to see us. Commentators failed to notice the crucial fact that the protesters did not claim any special status for themselves as members of a religious or ethnic community striving for its self-enclosed way of life. On the contrary, their main premise was that they wanted to be and *were* French citizens, but were not fully recognised as such. 

The French philosopher Alain Finkielkraut created a scandal in France when, in an interview for the Israeli newspaper *Ha'aretz*, he qualified the riots as an 'anti-republican progrom' and 'an ethnic-religious revolt'. He was missing the point: the message of the outbursts was not that the protesters found their ethnic-religious identity threatened by French republican universalism but, on the contrary, that they were not included in it, that they found themselves on the other side of the wall which separates the visible from the invisible part of the republican social space. They were neither offering a solution nor constituting a movement for providing a solution. Their aim was to create a problem, to signal that they were a problem that could no longer be ignored. This is why violence was necessary. Had they organised a non-violent march, all they would have got was a small note on the bottom of a page ... 

The fact that the violent protesters wanted and demanded to be recognised as full French citizens, of course, signals not only the failure to integrate them, but simultaneously the crisis of the French model of integration into citizenship, with its implicitly racist exclusionary normativeness. Within the space of French state ideology, the term 'citizen' is opposed to 'indigene', and suggests a primitive part of the population not yet mature enough to deserve full citizenship. This is why the protesters' demand to be recognised also implies a rejection of the very framework through which recognition takes place. It is a call for the construction of a new universal framework. 

This brings us once more to our point of departure: the story about the worker stealing wheelbarrows. Analysts who were searching the wheelbarrows for their content and the riots for their hidden meaning were missing the obvious. As Marshall McLuhan would have put it, here the medium itself was the message. In the golden era of structuralism, Roman Jakobson deployed the notion of 'phatic' function, which he derived from Malinowski's concept of phatic communion, the use of language to maintain a social relation through ritualised formulas such as greetings, chit-chat about the weather, and related formal niceties of social communication. A good structuralist, Jakobson included the means of discontinuing communication: as he put it, the mere purport of prolonging communicative contact suggests the emptiness of such contact. He quotes a dialogue from Dorothy Parker: 

  'Well, here we are', he said. 
  'Here we are', she said, 'Aren't we?'
  'I should say we are,' he said. 

The emptiness of contact thus has a propitious technical function as a test of the system itself: a 'Hello, do you hear me?' The phatic function is therefore close to the 'meta-linguistic' function: it checks whether the channel is working. Simultaneously, the addresser and the addressee check whether they are using the same code. Is this not exactly what took place in the violent outbursts in the Paris suburbs? Was the basic message not a kind of 'Hello, do you hear me?', a testing both of the channel and of the code itself? 

Alain Badiou has reflected that we live in a social space which is progressively experienced as 'worldless'. In such a space, the only form protest can take is 'meaningless' violence. Even Nazi anti-semitism, however ghastly it was, opened up a world: it described its present critical situation by positing an enemy which was a 'Jewish conspiracy'; it named a goal and the means of achieving it. Nazism disclosed reality in a way which allowed its subjects to acquire a global 'cognitive mapping', which included a space for their meaningful engagement. Perhaps, it is here that one of the main dangers of capitalism should be located: although it is global and encompasses the whole world, it sustains a *stricto sensu* 'worldless' ideological constellation, depriving the large majority of people of any meaningful cognitive mapping. Capitalism is the first socioeconomic order which *detotalises meaning*: it is not global at the level of meaning (there is no global 'capitalist worldview' no 'capitalist civilisation' proper - the fundamental lesson of globalisation is precisely that capitalism can accommodate itself to all civilisations, from Christian to Hindu or Buddhism, from West to East); its global dimension can only be formulated at the level of truth-without-meaning, as the 'Real' of the global market mechanism. 

The first conclusion to be drawn from the French riots is thus that both conservative and liberal reactions to the unrest clearly fail. The conservatives emphasise the clash of civilisations and , predictably, law and order. Immigrants should not abuse our hospitality. They are our guests, so the should respect our customs. Our society has the right to safeguard its unique culture and way of life. There is no excuse for crime and violent behaviour. What young immigrants need is not more social help, but discipline and hard work... Meanwhile leftist liberals, no less predictably, stick to their mantra about neglected social programmes and integration efforts, which have deprived the younger generation of immigrants of any clear economic and social prospects: violent outbursts are their only way to articulate their dissatisfaction. As Stalin might have said, it is meaningless debating which reaction is worse: they are *both* worse, and that includes the warning formulated by both sides about the real danger of these outbursts residing in the easily predictable racist *reaction* of the French populace itself. 

The Paris riots need to be situated in a series they form with another type of violence that the liberal majority today perceives as a threat to our way of life: direct terrorist attacks and suicide bombings. In both instance, violence and counter-violence are caught up in a deadly vicious cycle, each generating the very forces it tries to combat. In both cases we are dealing with blind *passages a l'acte*, where violence is an implicit admission of impotence. The difference is that, in contrast to the Paris outbursts which were a zero-level protest, a violent outburst which wanted nothing, terrorist attacks are carried out on behalf of that *absolute* meaning provided by religion. Their ultimate target is the entire Western godless way of life based on modern science. Science today effectively does compete with religion, insofar as it serves two properly *ideological* needs, those for hope and those for censorship, which were traditionally taken care of by religion. To quote John Gray:

   Science alone has the power to silence heretics. Today it is the only institution that can claim authority. Like the Church in the past, it has the power to destroy or marginalize, independent thinkers ... From the standpoint of anyone who values freedom of thought, this may be unfortunate, but it is undoubtedly the chief source of science's appeal. For us, science is a refuge from uncertainties, promising - and in some measure delivering - the miracle of freedom from thought, while churches have become sanctuaries for doubt. 

We are not talking here about science as such, so the idea of science sustaining 'freedom from thought' is not a variation on Heidegger's notion that 'science doesn't think'. We are talking about the way science functions as a social force, as an ideological institution: at this level, its function is to provide certainty, to be a point of reference on which one can rely, and to provide hope. New technological inventions will help us fight disease, prolong life, and so on. In this dimension, science is what Lacan called 'university discourse' at its purest: knowledge whose 'truth' is a Master-Signifier, that is, power. Science and religion have changed places: today, science provides the security religion once guaranteed. In a curious inversion, religion is one of the possible places from which one can deploy critical doubts about today's society. It has become one of the sites of resistance. 

The 'worldless' character of capitalism is linked to this hegemonic role of the scientific discourse in modernity. Hegel had already clearly identified this feature when he noted that, for us moderns, art and religion no longer command ab=solute respect: we can admire them, but we no longer kneel down before them, our heart is not really with them. Only science - conceptual knowledge - deserves this respect. And it is only psychoanalysis that can disclose the full contours of the shattering impact of modernity - that is, capitalism combined with the hegemony of scientific discourse - on the way our identity is grounded in symbolic identifications. No wonder modernity led to the so-called 'crisis of sense', that is to the disintegration of the link between, or even identity of, truth and meaning. 

In Europe, where modernisation rook place over several centuries, there was time to adjust to this break, to soften its shattering impact, through *Kulturarbeit*, the work of culture. New social narratives and myths slowly came into being. Some other societies - notably the Muslim ones - were exposed to this impact directly, without a protective screen or temporal delay, so their symbolic universe was perturbed much more brutally. They lost their (symbolic) ground with no time left to establish a new (symbolic) balance. No wonder, the, that the only way for some of these societies to avoid total breakdown was to erect in panic the shield of 'fundamentalism', that psychotic-delirious-incestuous reassertion of religion as direct insight into the divine Real, with all the terrifying consequences that such a reassertion entails, and including the return with a vengeance of the obscene superego divinity demanding sacrifices. 

As to the 'terrorist' attacks by fundamentalists, the first thing that strikes the eye is the inadequacy of the idea, developed most systematically by Donald Davidson, that human acts are rationally intentional and accountable in terms of the beliefs and desires of the agent. Such an approach exemplifies the racist bias of the theories of 'rationality'. Although their aim is to understand the Other from within, they end up attributing to the Other the most ridiculous beliefs - including the infamous 400 virgins awaiting the believer in paradise as a 'rational' explanation of why he is ready to blow himself up. In their effort to make the Other 'like us', they end up making him ridiculously weird. 

Here is a passage from one of the propaganda texts distributed by North Korea during the Korean War: 

   Hero Kango Ho-yung was seriously wounded in both arms and both legs in the Kamak Hill Battle, so he rolled into the midst of the enemy with a hand grenade in his mouth and wiped them out, shouting: 'My arms and legs were broken. But on the contrary my retaliatory spirit against you scoundrels became a thousand times stronger. I will show the unbending fighting will of a member of the Worker's Party of Korea and unflinchingly will firmly pledged to the Party and the Leader!'

It is easy to laugh at the ridiculously unrealistic character of this description: how could poor Kang talk if he was holding the grenade with his mouth? And how is it that, in the midst of a fierce battle, there was time for such a long declamatory proclamation? However, what if the mistake is to read this passage as a realistic description and thus impute ridiculous beliefs to Koreans? Asked directly, it is clear that North Koreans would reply: of course this story is not literally true - it is just meant to render the unconditional spirit of sacrifice and the readiness of the Korean people to do the impossible in order to defeat the imperialist aggression on their land ... What if the mistake is the same as that of the anthropoligists who impute to 'primitive' aborigines celebrating the eagle as their ancestor the belief that they are really descended from the eagle? Why not read this passage - which effectively sounds operatic in its pathos - in the way we might listen to Act III fo Wagner's *Tristan*, where the mortally wounded hero sings his extremely demanding dying chant for almost an hour? Which of us is ready to impute to Wagner the belief that this is possible? But singing Tristan's death is much more difficult than what the unfortunate Kang did ... Perhaps we should imagine Kang singing an aria before rolling under the tank, in that properly operatic moment of the suspension of the flow of real time when, in a song, the hero reflects on what he is about to do. 


---
#### *Terrorist Resentment*

William Butler Yeats's 'Second Coming' seems perfectly to render our present predicament: 'The best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.' This is an excellent description of the current split between anaemic liberals and impassioned fundamentalists. 'The best' are no longer able to fully engage, while 'the worst' engage in racist, religious, sexist fanatism. 

However, are the terrorist fundamentalists, be they Christian or Muslim, really fundamentalists in the authentic sense of the term? Do they really believe? What they lack is a feature that is easy to discern in all authentic fundamentalists, from Tibetan Buddhists to the Amish in the US: the absence of resentment and envy, the deep indifference towards the nonbelievers' way of life. If today's so-called fundamentalists really believe they have found their way to truth, why should they feel threatened by non-believers, why should they envy them? When a Buddhist enccounters a Western hedonist, he hardly condemns him. He just benevolently notes that the hedonist's search for happiness is self-defeating. In contrast to true fundamentalists, the terrorist pseudo-fundamentalists are deeply bothered, intrigued, fascinated, by the sinful life of the non-believers. **One can feel that, in fighting the sinful Other, they are fighting their own temptation**

	fundamentalist : a tendency among certain groups and individuals that is characterized by the application of a strict literal interpretation to scriptures, dogmas, or ideologies, along with a strong belief in the importance of distinguishing one's ingroup and outgroup, which leads to an emphasis on some conception of 'purity' and a desire to return to a previous ideal from which advocates believe members have strayed. The term is usually used in the context of religion to indicate an unwavering attachment to a set of irreducible beliefs (fundamentals)

These so-called Christian or Muslim fundamentalists are a disgrace to true fundamentalism.

It is here that Yeats's diagnosis falls short of the present predicament: the passionate intensity of a mob bears witness to a lack of true conviction. Deep in themselves, terrorist fundamentalists also lack true conviction - their violent outbursts are proof of it. How fragile the belief of a Muslim must be, if he feels threatened by a stupid caricature in a low-circulation Danish newspaper. The fundamentalist Islamic terror is *not* grounded in the terrorists' conviction of their superiority and in their desire to safeguard their cultural-religious identity from the onslaught of global consumerist civilisation. The problem with fundamentalists is not that we consider them inferior to us, but , rather, that *they themselves* secretly consider themselves inferior. This is why our condescending politically correct assurances that we feel no superiority towards them only makes them more furious and feeds their resentment. The problem is not cultural difference (their effort to preserve their identity), but the opposite fact that the fundamentalists are already like us, that, secretly, they have already internalised our standards and measure themselves by them. (This clearly goes for the Dalai Lama, who justifies Tibetan Buddhism in Western terms of the pursuit of happiness and the avoidance of pain.) Paradoxically, what the fundamentalists really lack is precisely a dose of that true 'racist' conviction of one's own superiority. 

The perplexing fact about the 'terrorist' attacks is that they do not fit our standard opposition of evil as egotism or disregard for the common good, and good as the spirit of and actual readiness for sacrifice in the name of some higher cause. Terrorists cannot but appear as something akin to Milton's Satan with his 'Evil, be thou my Good': while they pursue what appear to us to be evil goals with evil means, the very form of their activity meets the highest standard of the good. The resolution of this enigma isn't difficult and was already known to Rousseau. Egotism, or the concern for one's wellbeing, is *not* opposed to the common good, since altruistic norms can easily be deduced from egotist concerns. Individualism versus communitarianism, utilitarianism versus the assertion of universal norms, are *false* oppositions, since the two opposed options amount to the same in their result. The critics who complain how, in today's hedonistic-egotistic society, true values are lacking totally miss the point. The true opposite of egotist selflove is not altruism, a concern for common good, but envy, *ressentiment*, which makes me act *against* my own interests. Freud knew it well: the death drive is opposed to the pleasure principle as well as to the reality principle. The true evil, which is the death drive, involves selfsabotage. It makes us act *against* our own interests.

The problem with human desire is that, as Lacan put it, it is always 'desire of the Other' in all the senses of that term: desire for the Other, desire to be desired by the Other, and , especially, desire for what the Other desires. This last makes envy, which includes resentment, constitutive components of human desire, something Augustine knew well. Recall the passage from his *Confessions*, often quoted by Lacan, the scene of a baby jealous of his brother sucking at the mother's breast: 'I myself have seen and known an infant to be jealous though it could not speak. It became pale, and cast bitter looks on its foster-brother.'

Based on this insight, Jean-Pierre Dupuy proposes a convincing critique of John Rawls's theory of justice. In the Rawlsian model of a just society, social inequalities are tolerated only insofar as they also help those at the bottom of the social ladder, and insofar as they are based not on inherited hierarchies, but on natural inequalities, which are considered contingent, not merits. Even the British Conservatives seem now to be prepared to endorse Rawls's notion of justice: in December 2005 David Cameron, the newly elected Tory leader, signalled his intention of turning the Conservative Party into a defender of the underprivileged declaring, 'I think the test of all our policies should be: what does it do for the people who have the least, the people on the bottom rung of the ladder?' But what Rawls doesn't see is how such a society would create conditions for an uncontrolled explosion of *ressentiment*: in it, I would know that my lower status is fully 'justified' and would thus be deprived of the ploy of excusing my failure as the result of social injustice.

Rawls thus proposes a terrifying model of a society in which hierarchy is directly legitimised in natural properties, thereby missing the simple lesson an anecdote about a Slovene peasant makes palpably clear. The peasant is given a choice by a good witch. She will either give him one cow and his neighbour two cows, or she'll take one cow from him and two from his neighbour. The peasant immediately chooses the second option. Gore Vidal demonstrates the point succinctly: 'It is not enough for me to win - the other must lose.' The catch of envy/resentment is that it not only endorses the zero-sum game principle where my victory equals the other's loss. It also implies a gap between the two, which is not the positive gap (we can all win with no losers at all), but a negative one. If I have to choose between my gain and my opponent's loss, I prefer the opponent's loss, even if it means also a loss to me. It is as if my eventual gain from the opponent's loss functions as a kind of pathological element that stains the purity of my victory.

Friedrich Hayek knew that it was much easier to accept inequalities if one can claim that they result from an impersonal blind force: the good thing about the 'irrationality' of the market and success or failure in capitalism is that it allows me precisely to perceive my failure or success as 'undeserved', contingent. Remember the old motif of the market as the modern version of an imponderable fate. The fact that capitalism is not 'just' is thus a key feature of what makes it acceptable to the majority. I can live with my failure much more easily if I know that it is not due to my inferior qualities, but to chance. 

What Nietzsche and Freud share is the idea that justice as equality is founded on envy - on the envy of the Other who has what we do not have, and who enjoys it. The demand for justice is thus ultimately the demand that the excessive enjoyment of the Other should be curtailed so that everyone's access to *jouissance* is equal. The necessary outcome of this demand, of course is asceticism. Since it is not possible to impose equal *jouissance*, what is imposed instead to be equally shared is *prohibition*. Today, in our allegedly permissive society, however, this asceticism assumes the form of its opposite, a *generalised* superego injunction, the command 'Enjoy!' We are all under the spell of this injunction. The outcome is that our enjoyment is more hindered than ever. Take the yuppie who combines narcissistic ' self-fulfilment' with those utterly ascetic disciplines of jogging, eating health food, and so on. Perhaps this is what Nietzsche had in mind with his notion of the Last Man, though it is only today that we can really discern his contours in the guise of the hedonistic asceticism of yuppies. Nietzsche wasn't simply urging life-assertion against asceticism: he was well aware that a certain asceticism is the obverse of a decadent excessive sensuality. His criticism of Wagner's *Parsifal*, and , more generally, of late-Romantic decadence which oscillates between damp sensuality and obscure spiritualism, makes the point.

So what *is* envy? Let's return to the Augustinian scene of a sibling envying his brother who is suckling at the mother's breast. The subject does not envy the Other's possession of the prized object as such, but rather the way the Other is able to enjoy this object, which is why it is not enough for him simply to steal and thus gain possession of the object. His true aim is to destroy the Other's ability/capacity to enjoy the object. So we see that envy needs to be placed within the triad of envy, thrift and melancholy, the three forms of not being able to enjoy the object and, of course, reflexively enjoying that very impossibility. In contrast to the subject of envy, who envies the other's possession and/or *jouissance* of the object, the miser possesses the object, but cannot enjoy/consume it. His satisfaction derives from just possessing it, elevating it into a sacred, untouchable/prohibited, entity which should under no contidions be consumed. The proverbial figure of the lone miser is the one we3 see returning from home, safely locking the doors, opening up his chest and then taking that secret peek at his prized object, observing it in awe. The very thing that prevents his consumption of the object guarantees its status as the object of desire. As for the melancholic subject, like the miser he possesses the object, but he loses the reason that made him desire it. Most tragic of all, the melancholic has free access to all he wants, but finds no satisfaction in it.

This excess of envy is the base of Rousseau's well-known, but none the less not fully exploited, distinction between egotism, *amour-de-soi* (that love of the self which is natural), and *amour-propre*, the perverted preferring of oneself to others in which a person focuses not only on achieving a goal, but on destroying the obstacle to it: 

   The primitive passions, which all directly tend towards our happiness, make us deal only with objects which relate to them, and whose principle is only amour-de-soi, are all in their essence lovable and tender; however, when,  ***diverted from their objects by obstacles, they are more occupied with the obstacle they try to get rid of, than with the object they try to reach,*** they change their nature and become irascible and hateful. This is how amour-de-soi, which is a noble and absolute feeling, becomes amour-propre, that is to say, a relative feeling by means of which one compares oneself, a feeling which demands preferences, *whose enjoyment is purely negative and which does not strive to find satisfaction in our own well-being, but only in the misfortune of others.* 

An evil person is thus *not* an egotist, 'thinking only about his own interests'. A true egotist is too busy taking care of his own good to have time to cause misfortune to others. The primary vice of a bad person is precisely that he is more preoccupied with others than with himself. Rousseau is describing a precise libidinal mechanism: the inversion which generates the shift of the libidinal investment from the object to the obstacle itself. This could well be applied to fundamentalist violence - be it the Oklahoma bombings or the attack on the Twin Towers. In both cases, we were dealing with hatred pure and simple: destroying the obstacle, the Oklahoma City Federal Building, the World Trade Center, was what really mattered, not achieving the noble goal of a truly Christian of Muslim society. 

Here is why egalitarianism itself should never be accepted at its face value: the notion (and practice) of egalitarian justice, insofar as it is sustained by envy, relies on the inversion of the standard renunciation accomplished to benefit others: 'I am ready to renounce it, *so that others will (also) NOT (be able to) have it!*' Far from being opposed to the spirit of sacrifice, evil here emerges as the very spirit of sacrifice, ready to ignore one's own well-being - if, through my sacrifice, I can deprive the Other of his *enjoyment*.

---
#### *The Subject Supposed to Loot and Rape*

One of the pop heroes of the U.S.-Iraq war, who enjoyed a brief run of celebrity fame, was Muhammad Saeed al-Sahaf, the unfortunate Iraqi information minister. In his daily press conferences, he heroically denied even the most evident facts and tuck to the Iraqi line. 

When U.S. tanks were only hundreds of yards from his office, he continued to claim that the U.S. TV images of tanks on the Baghdad streets were just Hollywood special effects. Sometimes, however, he struck an oddly truthful chord: when confronted with the claims that Americans were in control of parts of Baghdad, he snapped back: "They are not in control of anything-they don't even control themselves!" 

With the reports of New Orleans' descent into chaos, Marx's old saying that tragedy repeats itself as farce seems to have been inverted: Saeed's comic repartee turned into tragedy. The U.S., the world's policeman who endeavours to control threats to peace, freedom, and democracy around the globe, lost control of a part of America itself. For a few days, New Orleans apparently regressed to a wild preserve of looting, killing, and rape. It became a city of the dead and dying, a post-apocalyptic zone where those the philosopher Giorgio Agamben calls *Homini sacer*-people excluded from the civil order - wander. A fear permeates our lives that this kind of disintegration of the entire social fabric can come at any time, that some natural or technological accident-whether earthquake or electricity failure or the hoary Millenium Bug - will reduce our world to a primitive wilderness. This sense of the fragility of our social bond is in itself a social symptom. Precisely when and where one would expect a surge of solidarity in the face of disaster, there is a fear that the most ruthless egotism will explode, in the way it did in New Orleans. 

This is no time for any kind of *Schadenfreude* of 'the U.S. got what it deserved' variety. The tragedy in New Orleans was immense: analysis of what happened is overdue. The scenes we saw on the TV news in the last days cannot but recall a whole series of real-life media and cultural phenomena. The first association, of course, is that of the TV reports from Third World cities descending into chaos during a civil war (Kabul, Baghdad, Somalia, Liberia...) - and this accounts for the true surprise of the New Orleans eclipse: what we were used to seeing happening THERE was now taking place HERE. The irony is that Louisiana *is* often designated as the "U.S. Banana Republic," the Third World within the U.S. This is probably one of the reasons the reaction of the authorities came too late. Although rationally we knew what might happen, we didn't really believe that it would or could happen, just as with the threat of ecological catastrophe. We know all about it, but we somehow don't really believe that it can happen ...

So what *was* the catastrophe that took place in New Orleans? On closer inspection, the first thing to note is its strange temporality, a kind of delayed reaction. Immediately after the hurricane struck, there was momentary relief: its eye had missed New Orleans by about twenty-five miles. Only ten people were reported dead, so the worst, the feared catastrophe, had been avoided. Then, in the aftermath, things stared to go badly wrong. Part of the protective levee of the city broke down. The city was flooded and social order disintegrated... The natural catastrophe, the hurricane, thus revealed itself to be 'socially mediated' in multiple ways. First, there are good reasons to suspect that the U.S. is getting more hurricanes than usual owing to man-induced global warming. Second, thee catastrophic immediate effect of the hurricane-the flooding of the city-was to a large extent due to human failure: the protective dams were not good enough, and the authorities were insufficiently prepared to meet the easily predictable humanitarian needs which followed. But the true and greater shock took place *after the event*, in the guise of the social effect of the natural catastrophe. The disintegration of the social order came as a kind of deferred action, as if natural catastrophe were repeating itself as social catastrophe. 

How are we to read this social breakdown? The first reaction is the standard conservative one. The events in New Orleans confirm yet again how fragile social order is, how we need strict law enforcement and ethical pressure to prevent the explosion of violent passions. Human nature is naturally evil, descent into social chaos is a permanent threat ... This argument can also be given a racist twist: those who exploded into violence were almost exclusively black, so here we have new proof of how blacks are not really civilised. Natural catastrophes bring to light the scum which is barely kept hidden and under check in normal times. 

Of course, the obvious answer to this line of argument is that the New Orleans descent into chaos rendered visible the persisting racial divide in the U.S. New Orleans was 68% black. The blacks are the poor and the underprivileged. They had no means by which to flee the city in time. They were left behind, starving and uncared for. No wonder they exploded. Their violent reaction should be seen as echoing the Rodney King riots in LA, or even the Detroit and Newark outburts in the late 1960s. 

More fundamentally, what if the tension that led to the explosion in New Orleans was not the tension between 'human nature' and the force of civilisation that keeps it in check, but the tension between the two aspects of our civilisation itself? What if, in endeavouring to control explosions like the one in New Orleans, the forces of law and order were confronted with the very nature of capitalism at its purest, the logic of individualist competition, of ruthless self-assertion, generated by capitalist dynamics, a 'nature'  much more threatening and violent than all the hurricanes and earthquakes?

In his theory of the sublime (*das Erhabene*), Immanuel Kant interpreted our fascination at the outbursts of the power of nature as a negative proof of the superiority of spirit over nature. No matter how brutal the display of ferocious nature is, it cannot touch the moral law in ourselves. Does the catastrophe of New Orleans not provide a similar example of the sublime? no matter how brutal the vortex of the hurricane, it cannot disrupt the vortex of the capitalist dynamic. 

There is, however, another aspect of the New Orleans outbursts that is no less crucial with regard to the ideological mechanisms that regulate our lives. According to a well-known anthropological anecdote, the 'primitives' to whom one attributes certain superstitious beliefs-that the descend from a fish or from a bird, for example -when asked directly about these beliefs, answer: 'Of course not-we're not that stupid! But I was told that some of our ancestors effectively did believe that... '  In short, they transfer their belief onto another. We do the same with our children. We go through the ritual of Santa Claus, since our children are *supposed* to believe in him and we do not want to disappoint them. They pretend to believe so as not to disappoint us and our belief in their naivety (and to get the presents, of course). Is this not also the usual excuse of the mythical crooked politician who turns honest?- 'I cannot disappoint the ordinary people who believe in it (or in me).' To take this a step further, is this need to find another who 'really believes' not the very thing which propels us in our need to stigmatise the Other as a (religious or ethnic) 'fundamentalist'? In an uncanny way, some beliefs always seem to function 'at a distance': in order for the belief to function, there *has to be* some ultimate guarantor of it, yet this guarantor is always deferred, displaced, never present *in persona*. The point, of course, is that this other subject who fully believes need not exist for the belief to be operative. It is enough to *presuppose* his existence, that is, to *believe* in it, either in the guise of the primitive Other or in the guise of the impersonal 'one' ('one believes...').

Doesn't this deferral or displacement also work for our innermost feelings and attitudes, including crying and laughing? From the so-called 'weepers,' women hired to cry at funerals in 'primitive' societies, to the 'canned laughter' of television sitcoms where the reaction of laughter to a comic scene is dubbed into the soundtrack, to the adoption of an avatar in cyberspace, the same sort of phenomenon is at work. When I construct a 'false' image of myself which stands for me in a virtual community in which I participate (in sexual games, for example, a shy man often assumes the on-screen persona of an attractive promiscuous woman), the emotions I feel and 'feign' as part of my onscreen persona are not simply false. Although what I experience as my 'true self' does not feel them, they are none the less in a sense 'true', just as when I watch a TV series replete with canned laughter, even if I do not laugh, but simply stare at the screen, tired after a hard day's work, I none the less feel relieved after the show...

The events in New Orleans after the city was struck by the hurricane Katrina provide a new addition to this series of 'subjects supposed to...': *the subject supposed to loot and rape*. We all remember the reports on the disintegration of public order, the explosion of black violence, rape, and looting-however, later inquiries demonstrated that in the large majority of cases, these alleged orgies of violence simply *did not occur*: unverified rumours were reported as facts by the media. For example, on 4 September Superintendent Compass of the New Orleans Police Department was quoted in the *New York Times* about conditions at the convention centre: 'The tourists are walking around there, and as soon as these individuals see them, they're being preyed upon. They are beating, they are raping them in the streets.' In an interview two weeks later, he conceded that some of his most shocking statements turned out to be untrue: 'We have no official reports to document any murder. Not one official report of rape or sexual assault.'

The reality of poor blacks abandoned and left without the means of survival was thus transformed into the spectre of an explosion of black violence, of tourists robbed and killed on the streets that had slid into anarchy, in a Superdome rife with gangs raping women and children... These reports were not merely words, they were words which had precise *material effects*: they generated fears that led the authorities to change troop deployments, they delayed medical evacuations, drove police officers to quit, grounded helicopters. For example, Acadian Ambulance Company's cars were locked down after word came that a firehouse in Covington had been looted by armed robbers of all its water-a report that proved to be completely unfounded. 

Of course, the sense of menace had been ignited by genuine disorder and violence: looting *did* begin at the moment the storm passed over New Orleans. It ranged from base thievery to foraging for the necessities of life. However, the (limited) reality of crimes in no way condones 'reports' on the total breakdown of law and order, not because these reports were 'exaggerated,' but for a much more radical reason. Jacques Lacan claimed that, even if the patient's wife really is sleeping around with other men, the patient's jealousy is still to be treated as a pathological condition. In a homologous way, even if rich Jews in the Germany of the early 1930s 'really' exploited German workers, seduced their daughters, dominated the popular press, and so on, Nazi anti-Semitism was still emphatically 'untrue,' a pathological ideological condition. Why? What made it pathological was the disavowed libidinal investment into the figure of the Jew. The cause of all social antagonisms was projected into the 'jew,' the object of a perverted love-hatred, the spectral figure of mixed fascination and disgust. Exactly the same applies to the looting in New Orleans: *even if ALL reports of violence and rape were to be proved factually true, the stories circulating about them would still be 'pathological' and racist*, since what motivated these stories was not facts but racist prejudices, the satisfaction felt by those who would be able to say: 'You see, blacks are really like that, violent barbarians under the thin layer of civilisation!' In other words, we would be dealing with what one can call *lying in the guise of truth*: even if what I am saying is factually true, the motives that make me say it are false. 

So what about the obvious rightist-populist counter-argument: if telling factual truth involves a subjective lie- the racist attitude -does this mean that, out of political correctness, we are not allowed to tell the simple facts when blacks commit a crime? The answer is clear: the obligation is not to lie, to falsify or ignore facts, on behalf of some higher political truth, but-and this is a much more difficult thing to do-to change one's subjective position so that telling the factual truth will not involve the lie of the subjective position of enunciation. Therein resides the limitation of standard political correctness: instead of changing the subjective position from which we speak, it imposes on us a set of rules with regard to content. Don't point out that blacks committed crimes. Don't mention how lesbian couple mistreat their children. Don't dwell on how underprivileged minorities brutalise women and children ... But all these rules on content effectively leave our subjective position untouched. 

Of course, we do not openly admit these motives. From time to time they nevertheless pop up in our public space in censored form, in the guise of de-negation, evoked as an option and then immediately discarded. Recall what William Bennett, the gambling, neo-con author of *The Book of Virtues*,said on 28 September 2005 on his call-in programme *Morning in America:* 'But I do know that it's true that if you wanted to reduce crime, you could, if that were your sole purpose, you could abort every black baby in this country, and your crime rate would go down. That would be an impossibly ridiculous and morally reprehensible thing to do, but your crime rate would go down.' The White House reacted immediately: 'The president believes the comments were not appropriate.' Two days later, Bennett qualified his statement: 'I was putting a hypothetical proposition... and then said about it, it was a morally reprehensible to recommend abortion of an entire group of people. But this is what happens when you argue that ends can justify the means.' This is exactly what Freud meant when he wrote that the unconscious knows no negation: the official (Christian, democratic...) discourse is accompanied and sustained by a whole nest of obscene, brutal, racist, sexist fantasies, which can only be admitted in a censored form.

But we are not dealing here only with good old racism. Something more is at stake: a fundamental feature of our emerging 'global' society. On 11 September 2001 the Twin Towers were hit. Twelve years earlier, on 9 November 1989, the Berlin Wall fell. That date heralded the 'happy '90s,' the Francis Fukuyama dream of the 'end of history' -the belief that liberal democracy had, in principle, won; that the search was over; that the advent of a global, liberal world community lurked just around the corner; that the obstacles to this ultra-Hollywood happy ending were merely empirical and contingent (local pockets of resistance where the leaders did not yet grasp that their time was up). In contrast, 9/11 is the main symbol of the end of the Clintonite happy '90s. This is the era in which new walls emerge everywhere, between Israel and the West Bank, around the European Union, on the U.S.-Mexico border. The rise of the populist New Right is just the most prominent example of the urge to raise new walls. 

A couple years ago, an ominous decision of the European Union passed almost unnoticed: the plan to establish an all-European border police force to secure the isolation of Union territory and thus to prevent the influx of immigrants. *This* is the truth of globalisation: the construction of new walls safeguarding prosperous Europe from the immigrant flood. One is tempted to resuscitate here the old Marxist 'humanist' opposition of 'relations between things' and 'relations between persons': in the much-celebrated free circulation opened up by global capitalism, it is 'things' (commodities) which freely circulate, while the circulation of 'persons' is more and more controlled. We are not dealing now with 'flobalisation' as an unfinished project but with a true 'dialectics of globalisation': the segregation of the people *is* the reality of economic globalisation. This new racism of the developed is in a way much more brutal than the previous ones: its implicit legitimisation is neither naturalist (the 'natural' superiority of the developed West) nor any longer culturalist (we in the West also want to preserve our cultural identity), but unabashed economic egotism. The fundamental divide is one between those included in the sphere of (relative) economic prosperity and those excluded from it. 

This brings us back to rumours and so-called reports about 'subjects supposed to loot and rape.' New Orleans is among the cities most heavily marked by the internal wall within the U.S. that separates the affluent from the ghettoised blacks. And it is about those on the other side of the wall that we fantasise: more and more they live in another world, in a blank zone that offers itself as a screen for the projection of our fears, anxieties, and secret desires. *The 'subject supposed to loot and rape' is on the other side of the wall*. It is about this subject that Bennett can afford to make his slip of the tongue and confess in a censored mode his murderous dreams. More than anything else, rumours and false reports from the aftermath of Katrina bear witness to dep class division of American society. 

When, at the beginning of October 2005, the Spanish police dealt with the problem of how to stop the influx of desperate African immigrants who tried to penetrate the small Spanish territory of Melilla, on the Rif coast of Africa, they displayed plans to build a wall between the Spanish enclave and Morocco. The images presented-a complex structure replete with electronic equipment-bore an uncanny resemblance to the Berlin Wall, only with the opposite function. This wall was destined to prevent people from coming in, not getting out. The cruel irony of the situation is that it is the government of Jose Zapatero, at this moment leader of arguably the most anti-racist and tolerant administration in Europe, that is forced to adopt these measures of segregation. This is a clear sign of the limit of the multi-culturalist 'tolerant' approach, which preaches open borders and acceptance of others. If one were to open the borders, the first to rebel would be the local working classes. It is thus becoming clear that the solution is not 'tear down the walls and let them all in,' the easy empty demand of soft-heartened liberal 'radicals.' The only true solution is to tear down the *true* wall, nor the Immigration Department one, but the socio-economic one: to change society so that people will no longer desperately try to escape their own world. 




