*Liberalism of Fundamentalism?*
*A Plague on Both Their Houses*

Immanuel Kant developed the notion of the 'antinomies of pure reason.' Finite human reason inevitably falls into self-contradiction when it attempts to go beyond concrete sense experience to address such questions as: Does the Universe have a beginning in time, a limit in space, an initial cause, or is it infinite? The antinomy arises because it is possible to construct valid arguments for both sides of the question: we can conclusively demonstrate that the universe is finite *and* that it is infinite. Kant argues that if this conflict of reason is not resolved, humanity will lapse into a bleak scepticism which he called the 'euthanasia of pure reason.' The reactions to the Muslim outrage at the Danish caricatures of Muhammad-the other violent outbursts that stirred public opinion in the West in the autumn of 2005-seem to confront us with a similar antinomy of *tolerant* reason: two opposite stories can be told about the caricatures, each of them convincing and well argued, without any possibility of mediation or reconciliation between them. 

To the Western liberal for whom freedom of the press is one of the highest goods, the case is clear. Even if we reject the caricatures in disgust, their publication in no way justifies murderous mob violence and the stigmatisation of a whole country. Those offended by the caricatures should have gone to court to prosecute the offender, and not demanded apologies from a state which espouses press freedom. The Muslim reaction displays a blatant lack of understanding of the Western principle of an independent civil society. 

What underlies the Muslim attitude is the Muslim belief in the sacred status of writing (which is why, traditionally, Muslims don't use paper in their toilets). The idea of thoroughly secularised writing, not to mention a Monty Pythonesque 'Life of Muhammad.' is unimaginable in an Islamic culture. There is more in this than may at first appear. A mocking of divinity is part of European religious tradition itself, starting with the ancient Greek ritualistic ridiculing of the gods of Olympus. There is nothing subversive or atheist here: this mocking is an inherent part of religious life. As for Christianity, we must not forget the moments of carnivalesque irony in Christ's parables and riddles. Even the crucifixion contains its own mocking, blasphemous spectacle in the donkey-riding king who is Christ, his crown a matter of thorns. Christianity disrupts the pagan notion of the slapstick reversal of the proper relations of authority in which, for a limited time, a fool is celebrated as a king. In Christianity, the 'true' king is revealed to be his own blasphemy, a Lord of Misrule, a fool. This is why when, in december 2006, a group of Polish conservative nationalist members of parliament seriously proposed to proclaim Jesus Christ king of Poland, they not only confused religious and political orders; their proposal was also deeply *pagan*, anti-Christian, missing as it did the joke of Christianity itself. 

For the Western liberal there is also the problem of the brutal and vulgar anti-Semitic and anti-Christian caricatures that abound in the press and schoolbooks of Muslim countries. There is no respect here for other people and their religion-a respect that is demanded from the West. But there is little respect for their own people, either, as the case of a particular cleric exemplifies. In the autumn of 2006, Sheik Taj Din al-Hilali, Australia's most senior Muslim cleric, caused a furore when, after a group of Muslim men had been jailed for gang rape, he said: 'If you take uncovered meat and place it outside on the street... and the cats come and eat it... whose fault is it-the cats' or the uncovered meat? The uncovered meat is the problem.' The explosively provocative nature of this comparison between a woman who is not veiled and raw, uncovered meat distracted attention from another, much more surprising premise underlying al-Hilali's argument: if women are held responsible for the sexual conduct of men, does this not imply that men are totally helpless when faced with what they perceive as sexual temptation, that they are simply unable to resist it, that they are utterly in thrall to their sexual hunger, precisely like a cat when it sees raw meat? In contrast to this presumption of a complete lack of male responsibility for their own sexual conduct, the emphasis on public female eroticism in the West relies on the premise that men *are* capable of sexual restraint, that they are not blind slaves of their sexual drives. 

Some of the Western partisans of multiculturalist tolerance, who try to display 'understanding' of the Muslim reaction, point out that the obvious overreaction to the caricatures has an underlying cause. The murderous violence at first aimed at Denmark, but then expanding to the whole of Europe and the West, indicates that the protests were not really about the specific cartoons, but about the humiliations and frustrations associated with the West's entire imperialist attitude. In the weeks after the demonstrations, journalists competed with each other to enumerate the 'real reasons' behind the riots: the Israeli occupation, dissatisfaction with the pro-American Musharraf regime in Pakistan, anti-Americanism in Iran, and so on. The problem with this line of excuse is clear if we extend it to anti-Semitism itself: Muslim anti-Semitism is not 'really' about Jews, but a displaced protest about capitalist exploitation. But this excuse only makes it worse for the Muslims and forces one logically to ask: why don't they address the TRUE cause?

On the other hand, a no less convincing case can be made against the West. It soon became known that the same Danish newspaper that published the Muhammad caricatures, in a blatant display of bias, had previously rejected caricatures of Christ as too offensive. Furthermore, prior to resorting to public manifestations, the Danish Muslims did for months try the 'European' path of dialogue, asking to be seen by government authorities. They were ignored. The reality behind all this is the sad fact of the rising xenophobia in Denmark, signalling the end of the myth of Scandinavian tolllerance. Finally, we should examine the various prohibitions and limitations which underlie the so-called freedom of the press in the West. Isn't the Holocaust a sacred and untouchable fact? At the very moment when the Muslim protests were raging, the British historian David Irving was in an Austrian prison serving a three-year term for expressing his doubts about the Holocaust in an article published fifteen years earlier. 

How are we to read such legal prohibitions against (publicly) doubting the fact(s) of the Holocaust? The common moral sense which tells us that there is something false here is correct: the legalisation of the untouchable status of the Holocaust is, in a sense, the most refined and perverted version of the Holocaust is, in a sense, the most refined and perverted version of Holocaust denial. While fully admitting the fact(s) of the Holocaust, such laws neutralise their symbolic efficiency. Through their existence, the memory of the Holocaust is externalised, so the individual is exempted from its impact. I can calmly reply to the critics: 'It is written in our law and dealt with. So the problem is taken care of. What more do you want? Leave me to lead my life in peace now!' The idea, of course, is not that we occasionally need a David Irving to resuscitate our historical memory of the Holocaust and awaken us from the dogmatic slumber of relying on official external(ised) memory. It is that sometimes, a direct admission of a crime can be the most efficient way to avoid responsability for it. 

The Muslim counterpart to this legalistic hypocrisy is the strange inconsistency in their own references to the Holocaust. The Jordanian newspaper *Ad-Dustour* on 19 October 2003 published a cartoon depicting the railway to the death camp at Auschwitz-Birkenau, with Israeli flags replacing the Nazi ones. The sign in Arabic reads: 'Gaza Strip or the Israeli Annihilation Camp.' (It is interesting to note how this identification of the Israeli army with the Nazis was strangely echoed by the settlers in Gaza who, when they were forcibly evacuated by the IDF, also identified the buses and trucks provided by the IDF with the trains that took the Jews to Auschwitz, and claimed that another Holocaust, another destruction of the Jewish nation, would come to pass if these new transports were not stopped. Two opposite and mirroring examples of the brutal instrumentalisation of the Holocaust meet here.) This idea that Israel's policies towards the Palestinians have been comparable to Nazi actions towards Jews strangely contradicts Holocaust denial. The joke evoked by Freud in order to render the strange logic of dreams gives us a useful gloss on the strange logic at work here: (1) I never borrowed a kettle from you; (2) I returned it to you unbroken; (3) the kettle was already broken when I got it from you. Such an enumeration of inconsistent arguments, of course, confirms by negation what it endeavours to deny-that I returned your kettle broken... Doesn't this very consistency characterise the way radical Islamists respond to the Holocaust? (1) The Holocaust did not happen; (2) it did happen, but the Jews deserved it; (3) the Jews did not deserve it, but they have lost the right to complain by doing to Palestinians what the Nazis did to them.

Speaking in Mecca in December 20055, President Ahmadinejad of Iran implied that guilt for the Holocaust led European countries to support the establishment of the state of Israel: 

  Some European countries insist on saying that Hitler killled millions of innocent Jews in furnaces, and they insist on it to the extent that if anyone proves something contrary to that, they condemn that person and throw them in jail... Although we don't accept this claim, if we suppose it is true, our question for the Europeans is: Is the killing of innocent Jewish people by Hitler the reason for their support of the occupiers of Jerusalem? ... If the Europeans are honest, they should give some of their provinces in Europe-in Germany, Austria, or other countries-to the Zionists, and the Zionists can establish their state in Europe. You offer part of Europe, and we will support it. 

This statement is both disgusting and contains an insight. The disgusting part is, of course, Holocaust denial and, even more problematically, the claim that thhe Jews deserved the Holocaust. ('We don't accept this claim': which one? That Hitler killed million of Jews *or that the Jews were innocent* and did not deserve to be killed?) What is correct about the quoted statement is the reminder of European hypocrisy: the European manoeuvre was indeed to pay for its own guilt with another people's land. So when the Israeli government spokesman Ra'anan Gissin said in response, 'Just to remind Mr. Ahmadinejad, we've been here long before his ancestors were here. Therefore, we have a birthright to be here in the land of our forefathers and to live here.' he evoked a historical right which, when applied universally, would lead to universal slaughter. That is to say, can one imagine a world in which ethnic groups would continually 'remind' their neighbours that 'we've been here before you' -even if this means a thousand or more years ago-and use this fact to justify their effort to seize the neighbour's land? Along these lines, a French Jewish writer, Cecile Winter, proposed a nice mental experiment: imagine Israel as it is, and its trajectory over the last half-century, *ignoring* the fact that Jews came here stigmatised by the signifier of the absolute victim, and thus beyond moral reproach. What we get, in that case, is a standard story of colonisation. 

But why should we *abstract* from the Holocaust when we judge Israeli politics towards Palestinians? Not because one can compare the two, but precisely because the Holocaust *was* an incomparably graver crime. The very need to evoke the Hollocaust in defence of Israeli acts secretly impllies that Israel is committing such horrible crimes that only the absolute trump card of the Holocaust can redeem them. Does this then mean that one should ignore the fact of the Holocaust when dealing with actual politics, since every use of it to legitimise political acts amounts to its obscene instrumentalisation? This, none the less, comes all too close to the (pseudo-)leftist obscenity according to which any mention of the Holocaust in today's political discourse is a fake, a manipulation to obfuscate Israeli crimes against the Palestinians (or, more generally, to minimise the no-less-terrifying suffering of Third World people, with regard to which the reference to the Holocaust enables the colonisers to present themselves as the true and ultimate victims). We are thus caught in a Kantian antinomy (thought it would be too obscene to call this 'the antinomy of Holocaust reason'): while any positive reference to the Holocaust amounts to its instrumentalisation, the reduction of any reference to the Holocaust to such an instrumentalisation (i.e. the imposition of total silence about the Holocaust in political discourse) is no less unacceptable.

But perhaps this reference to Kant also provides a solution: along the lines of Kant's notion of the negative use of reason as the only llegitimate one when we are dealing with noumenal objects, one should limit its use to a negative mode. The only permitted reference to the Holocaust should be a negative one. The Holocaust should not be evoked to justify/legitimise any political measures, but only to delegitimise (some) such measures, to impose some limitations on our political acts: one is justified in condemning acts which display a hubris whose extreme expression was the Holocaust. 

What, then, if the true caricatures of Islam are the violent anti-Danish demonstrations themselves, offering up a ridiculous image of Islam which exactly fits the Western cliche? The ultimate irony, of course, is that the ire of Muslim crowds turned against that very Europe which staunch anti-Islamists, such as the notorious journalist Oriana Fallaci who died in September 2006, perceived as far too tolerant towards Islam, and already capitulating to its pressure; and within Europe, against Denmark, part of the very model of tolerance Scandinavia stands for. This constellation perfectlly reproduces the paradox of the superego: the more you obey what the Other demands of you, the guiltier you are. It is as if the more you tolerate Islam, the stronger its pressure on you will be. 

Oriana Fallaci was the intolerant woman who served as a symptom of tolerant men. In the books written in her last years, she broke two cardinal rules: her writing was passionate and fully engaged; she utterly disregarded the politically correct mantra of respect for the Other. Her claim was that the ongoing War on Terror was not a clash of civilisations, but a clash between civilisation and barbarism. The enemy is not the political misuse of Islam, but Islam itself. The danger from within is the compromising attitude predominant in Europe. Her thesis is that Europe has already spiritually capitulated; it treats itself as a province of Islam, afraid of asserting its cultural and political identity. Repeatedly Fallaci draws attention to the asymmetry of tolerance: Europe apologises all the time, supports the construction of new mosques, urges respect, and so on. Meanwhile in some Muslim countries, the very conversion from Islam to Christianity is punishable by death. Fallaci's adamant stance is perhaps why her books are marginalised and perceived as unacceptable: after every big call to rally against the fundamentalist threat, Bush Blair, and even Sharon never forget to praise Islam as a great religion of love and tolerance which has nothing to do with the disgusting terrorist acts carried out in its name. 

Fallaci was an enlightened liberal atheist, not a Christian fundamentalist, and it is all too easy to dismiss her last books as an outburst of hysterical racist reaction. Her extraordinary success turned her into something of an 'untouchable' excremental object: the very embarrassment she provoked in multiculturalist liberals demonstrated that she had touched liberalism's sore point, its very own 'repressed.'

But Fallaci's mistake was to take the multiculturalist subservient 'respect' for the Muslim Other seriously. She failed to see how this 'respect' is a fake, a sign of hidden and patronising racism. In other words, far from simply opposing multiculturalist tolerance, what Fallaci did was to bring out its disavowed core. The French philosopher Alain Finkielkraut said in an interview published on 18 November 2005 in *Ha'aretz*, commenting on the French suburban outbursts: 'If an Arab burns a school, it is a revolt. If a white man does it is facism... Step by step, the generous idea of a war on racism is monstrously turning into a lying ideology. Anti-racism will be to the twenty-first century what communism was to the twentieth century. A source of violence.' Finkielkraut is right here, but for the wrong reasons: what is wrong in the politically correct multiculturalist struggle is not its excessive anti-racism, but its covert racism. 

Let us compare two statements by George W. Bush to look at this. In his inauguration speech in February 2005, Bush proclaimed: 'America will not pretend that jailed dissidents prefer their chains or that women welcome humiliation and servitude.' Alongside this we need to place Bush's repeated claims that Islam is a great religion of peace and is only *misused* by fundamentalists. A liberal multiculturalist would tend to dismiss the first claim as an expression of cultural imperialism, and qualify the second as acceptable, though really a mask for hypocrisy. Perhaps one should turn this assessment round and fearlessly follow it to its conclusion. What is problematic about Bush's 'respect for Islam' claims is not their hypocrisy, but the fact that they cover up an underlying racism and Eurocentrist cultural imperialism. 

What is wrong is the very content of his claims. The game of redeeming the inner truth of a religion or ideology and separating this out from its later or secondary political exploitation is simply false. It is non-philosophical. One need to be ruthless here, with regard to Islam, Christianity... or indeed Marxism. What is hypocritical is in fact Bush's first statement: one should fully endorse its content, nothing at the same time that Bush's political acts do not follow suit. 

#### *The Jerusalem Chalk Circle*

It is, however, all too easy to score points in this debate using witty reversals which can go on indefinitely; so let us stop this imagined polemical dialogue and risk a direct step into the 'heart of darkness' of the Middle East conflict. Many conservative (and not only conservative) pollitical thinkers, from Blaise Pascal to Immanuel Kant and Joseph de Maistre, elaborated the notion of the illegitimate origins of power, of the 'founding crime' on which states are based, which is why one should offer 'noble lies' to people in the guise of heroic narratives of origin. With regard to such ideas, what was often said about Israel is quite true: the misfortune of Israel is that it was established as a nation-state a century or two too late, in conditions when such fuonding crimes are no longer acceptable. The ultimate irony here is that it was Jewish intellectual influence that contributed to the rise of this unacceptability!

During my last visit to Israel, I was approached by an Israeli intellectual who, aware of my Palestinian sympathies, mockingly asked me: 'aren't you ashamed to be here, in israel, in this illegal, criminal state? Aren't you afraid that your being here will contaminate your leftist credentials and make you an accomplice in crime?' 

In all honesty I have to admit that every time I travel to Israel, I experience that strange thrill of entering a forbidden territory of illegitimate violence. Does this mean I am (not so) secretly an anti-Semite? But what if what disturbs me is precisely that I find myself in a state which hasn't yet obliterated the 'founding violence' of its 'illegitimate' origins, repressed them into a timeless past. In this sense, what the state of Israel confronts us with is merely the obliterated past of *every* state power. 

Why are we more sensitive to this violence today? Precisely because, in a global universe which legitimises itself with a global morality, sovereign states are no longer exempt from moral judgments, but treated as moral agents to be punished for their crimes, however contested it might remain who exerts the justice and who judges the judge. State sovereignty is thus severely constrained. This accounts for the emblematic value of the Middle East conflict: it confronts us with the fragility and penetrability of the border that separates 'illegitimate' non state power from 'legitimate' state power. In the case of the state of Israel, its 'illegitimate' origins are not yet obliterated. Their effects are fully felt today. Bertolt Brecht's motto from his *Beggar's Opera* comes to mind: what is the robberry of a bank compared to the founding of a bank? In other words, what is the robbery that violates the law compared to the robbery that takes place within the confines of the law? One is tempted to propose a new variation of this motto: what is committing an act of terror to a state power waging war on terror? 

When despairing Western observers wonder why the Palestinians persist in their stubborn attachment to their land and refuse to dissolve their identity in the wider Arab sea, they're demanding that Palestinians ignore precisely what is Israel's 'illegitimate' state-founding violence. In a display of poetic justice that asserts the irony of history, the Palestinians are giving Israel back its own message in its inverted and true form. There is the pathologicall attachment to the land, implying the right to return to it thousands of years later - a de facto denial of the deterritorialisation that allegedly characterises today's global capitalism. But the inverted message goes further than that. Imagine if we were to read the followei9ng statement in today's media:

  Our enemies called us terrorists ... People who were neither our friends nor our enemies ... also used this Latin name ... And yet, we were not terrorists... The historical and linguistic origins of the political term 'terror' prove that it cannot be applied to a revolutionary war of liberation... Fighters for freedom must arm; otherwise they would be crushed overnight.... What has a struggle for the dignity of man, against oppression and subjugation, to do with 'terrorism'?

One would automatically attribute this to an Islamic terrorist group and condemn it. However, the author of these words is none other than Menachem Begin in the years when the Haganah was fighting the British forces in Palestine. It is interesting to note how, in those years of the Jewish struggle against the British military in Palestine, the very term 'terrorist' had a positive connotation. Here's another mental experiment: imagine reading in contemporary newspapers an open letter headed 'Letter to the Terrorists of Palestine,' containing these sentences:

  My Brave Friends. You may not believe what I write you, for there is a lot of fertilizer in the air at the moment. But on my word as an old reporter, what I write is true. The Palestinians of America are for you. You are their champions. You are the grin they wear. You are the feather in their hats. You are the first answer that makes sense-to the New World. Every time you blow up an Israeli arsenal, or wreck an Israeli jail, or send an Israeli railroad sky high, or rob an Israeli bank, or let go with your guns and bombs at the Israeli betrayers and invaders of your homeland, the Palestinians of America make a little holiday in their hearts. 

A very similar open letter was indeed published in the late 1940s in American newspapers. It was written by none other than Ben Hecht, the celebrated Hollywood scriptwriter. All I have done is to replace the word 'Jews' with 'Palestinians' and 'British' with 'Israeli.' It is almost attractive to see the first-generation Israeli leaders openly confessing the fact that their claims to the land of Palestine cannot be grounded in universal justice, that we are dealing with a simple war of conquest between two groups between whom no mediation is possible. Here is what David Ben-Gurion, Israel's first prime minister, wrote: 

  Everyone can see the weight of the problems in the relations between Arabs and Jews. But no one sees that there is no solution to these problems. There is no solution! Here is an abyss, and nothing can link its two sides... We as a people want this land to be ours; the Arabs as a people want this land to be theirs.

The problem with this statement today is clear: such an exemption of ethnic conflicts for land from moral considerations is simply no longer acceptable. This is why the way the famous Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal, in his *Justice Not Vengeance*, approaches this problem appears so deeply problematic: 

  Some day it will have to be realized that is impossible to establish a state without some people, who have been living in the region, finding their rights curtailed. (Because where no people have lived before it is presumably impossible for people to live.) One has to be content if these infringements are kept within bounds and if relatively few people are affected by them. That was the case when Israel was founded... After all, there had been a Jewish population there for a long time, and the Palestinian population was comparatively sparse and had relatively numerous options in giving way. 

What Wiesenthal is advocating here is nothing less than state-founding violence with a human face; a violence, that is, with limited violations. (As ofr the comparative sparsity of settlers, the population of the Palestinian territory in 1880 was 25,000 Jews and 620,000 Palestinians.) However, from our present perspective, the most interesting sentence in Wiesenthal's essay comes a page earlier,where he writes: 'The continually victorious state of Israel cannot forever rely on the sympathy shown to victims.' Wiesenthal seems to mean that now that the state of Israel is 'continually victorious,' it no longer needs to behave like a victim, but can fully assert its force. This may be true, as long as one adds that this position of power aslo involves new responsibilities. The problem at the moment is that the state of Israel, though 'continually victorious,' still relies on the image of Jews as victims to legitimise its power politics, as well as to denounce its critics as covert Holocaust sympathisers. Arthur Koestler, the great anti-communist convert, proposed a profound insight: 'If power corrupts, the revverse is also true; persecution corrupts the victims, though perhaps in subtler and more tragic ways.' 

This is the fatal flaw in the one strong argument for the creation of a Jewish nation-state after the Holocaust: in creating their own state, the Jews would overcome the situation of being delivered up to the mercy of the diaspora states and the tolerance or intolerance of their nation's majority. Although this line of argument is different from the religious one, it has to rely on religious tradition to justify the geographical location of this new state. Otherwise, one finds oneself in the situation of the old joke about a madman looking for his llost wallet under the street light and not in the dark corner where he has lost it, because one sees better under the light: because it was easier, the Jews took land from the Palestinians and not from those who caused them so much suffering and thus owed them reparation. 

Robert Fisk, a British journalist who  lives in Lebanon, made a documentary about the Middle East crisis in which he reports how his 

  Arab neighbours, Palestinian refugees, had shown him the key of the house that they had once owned in Haifa, before it was taken from them by Israelis. So he visited the Jewish family living in the house and asked them where *they* had come from. The answer was Chrzanow, a small town near Krakow, in Poland, and they showed him a photo of their former Polish home, which they had lost during the war. So he travelled to Poland, and sought out the woman living in the house in Chrzanow. She was a 'repatriant' from Lemberg, now in Western Ukraine. It wasn't hard to guess the next link in the chain. The repatriate had been driven out of her home city when it was seized by the USSR. No doubt her house was taken over by Russians who had been brought in by the postwar regime in its campaign to Sovietize the city.

And the story goes on, of course: this Russian family probably moved there from a home in Eastern Ukraine destroyed by the Germans in the heavy fighting on the Eastern Front... It is here that the Holocaust comes in: the reference to the Holocaust enables the Israelis to exempt themselves from this chain of substitutions. But those who evoke the Holocaust in this way effectively manipulate it, instrumentalising it for current political uses. 

The big mystery of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is why it has persisted for so long when everybody knows the only viable solution: the withdrawal of the Israelisfrom the West Bank and Gaza, the establishment of a Palestinian state

