Oftentimes you will encounter an obscure package that only comes in the form
of pure source code. 
You'll need to use a few commands to get that source code package compiled 
and installed on your system.

First thing is first, you'll need to have software to install the tools that
will allow you to compile source code. 

``` bashh
sudo apt install build-essential
```

Once you do that, extract the contents of the package file, 
most likely a `.tar.gz` file.

``` bash
tar -xzvf package.tar.gz
```

Before you do anything, take a look at the README or INSTALL file inside the package.
Sometimes there will be specific installation instructions. 

Depending on what compile method the dev used, 
you'll have to use different commands, such as `cmake` or something else. 

However, most commonly you'll see basic make compilation...

Inside the package contents will be a configure script, 
this script checks for dependencies on your system and if you are missing anything, 
you'll see an error and you'll need to fix those dependencies. 

``` bash
./configure
```

the `./` allows you to execute a script in the current directory.

``` bash
make
```

Inside of the package contents, there is a file called `Makefile` that contains
rules to building the software. 
When you run the make command, it looks at this file to build the software.

``` bash
sudo make install
```

This command actually installs the package, 
it will copy the correct files to the correct locations on your computer. 

If you want to uninstall the package, use:

``` bash
sudo make uninstall
```

Be wary when using `make install`, you may not realize how much 
is actually going on in the background.
If you decide to remove this package, 
you may not actually remove everything because you didn't realize what was added 
to your system.
Instead forget everything about make install explained previously and use 
`checkinstall` command. 
This command will make a `.deb` file for you that you can easily install and uninstall.

``` bash 
sudo checkinstall
```

This command will essentially `make install` and build a `.deb` package and install it.
This makes it easier to remove the package later on.

---
[[$$$/$cheats/$oss/$linux/1_linux-journey/8_packages/8.6_yum-and-apt]]
[[$$$/$cheats/$oss/$linux/0_resources/0.2_contents]]

