A stack trace or traceback is a scary-looking  error message that the Python interpreter
prints to the console when it encounters certain problems.
Stack traces are most common when u tryin to run invalid Python code.

```
PythonError: Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<exec>", line 6, in <module>
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
  File "/home/pyodide/main.py", line 3
    msg = f"You have {strength} strength, {wisdom} wisdom, and {dexterity} dexterity for a total of {total} stats.
                                                                                                                  ^
IndentationError: unindent does not match any outer indentation level
```

1. `PythonError: Traceback (most recent call last):`
This is a standard header that's just letting us know that Python traceback is error.

2. `File "<exec>", line 6, in <module>` and `File "<string>", line 1, in <module>`
This is the start of the "trace". 
These strange `"<exec>"` and `"<string>"` files don't really exist, 
the python interpreter is letting us know about them because they have to do with how 
your code is executed in a virtual browser-based environment.

3. `File "/home/pyodide/main.py", line 3`
Now we're getting to the real meat of the error message.
The purpose of a "trace" is to show us the path that the Python interpreter took through
our code before it encountered the error, which can help us figure out what went wrong.

In this case, the interpreter was executing the code in the `main.py` file andd it got to line 
3 before it encountered the error.

4. `msg = f"You have {strength} strength, {wisdom} wisddom, and {dexterity} dexterity for a total of {total} stats.` 
This line of codde that caused the error. 

5. `IndentationError: unindent does not match any outer indentation level` 
This is the type of error that was raised. 
In this case, it's an `IndentationError`, whhich means that the python intepreter was
expecting a certain amount of inddentation (whitespace at the beggining of the line) 
but it ddidn't get what it was expecting. 

Don't be fooledd! The proper amount of indentation in python is 4 spaces or one tab
In this case, line 2 is actually indented 6 spaces, which is why the interpreter confused

---
[[5.4_Debugging_Practice]]
[[6.1_Python_Numbers]]