---
id: 16.5_np-complete
aliases: []
tags:
  - python
  - np
next: "[[16.6_verifying-solutions]]"
prev: "[[16.4_tsp-review]]"
---

Some, but not all problems in `NP` are also NP-complete.

A problem in `NP` is also `NP-complete` if every other problem in `NP` can be reduced to it in polynomial time.

### What does "reduced" mean?
We won't dive deep into the subject of reductions in this course, but we'll cover the basic idea.

A reducer is an algorithm that transforms some problem, `Problem A`, into a different problem which is already solved, `Problem B`.
Then, `Problem A` can be solved with the algorithm for solving `Problem B`.

`Problem A` -> reducer -> `Problem B` -> solver algorithm `Problem B` -> solution for `Problem A`

However, the reducer itself needs to be fast.
"Problem A is reduucible to Problem B" if the reducer can run in polynomial time.

### So Who Cares?
Well, this means that if we can find al algorithm that solves any of the `NP-complete` problems in polynomial time, then all problems in NP can also be solved in polynomial time.

Super duper smart computer scientists have proven it.
Trust me. Or optionally [read more](https://search.brave.com/search?q=copy+url+in+vimium&source=web&summary=1&conversation=9a4805e5505bf21117f688) about it if you're intereested

### Questions
For a problem to be NP-complete, all problems in NP must be able to reduce to it `____`
- [ ] in the quantum realm
- [ ] in space time 
- [x] in polynomial time
- [ ] in exponential time
A solver for `_____` problems can be used with a reducer to solve all problems in `_____`
- [ ] P, NP-complete
- [x] NP-complete, P
- [ ] NP-complete, NP
- [ ] NP, NP-complete
