Doc2Doc should be able to track changes in documents. 
Tracking changes is important for undoing and redoing edits. 
Some editors save changes and some file formats do as well.

### Assignment
Complete the `handle_edit` function. 
It takes as input a `document` string, 
an `edit_type` `EditType` enum, and an `edit` dictionary. 
It should use a match case statement to select the correct operation depending on the EditT`ype. 
Create a function to handle each operation as follows:

#### NEWLINE:
Use the `edit` dictionary to modify and return a copy of the `document`. 
The `edit` dictionary will only contain a `line_number` key and integer value (zero-indexed!). 
Add a newline `\n` at the end of the line of the document corresponding to the `line_number`.

#### SUBSTITUTE:
Use the `edit` dictionary to modify and return a copy of the `document`. 
The `edit` dictionary will contain a `insert_text` key and string value, 
a `line_number` key and integer value, 
a `start` key and integer value and an `end` key and integer value. 
Substitute the `insert_text` into the line of the document corresponding to the `line_number` between the `start` and `end` indexes.

#### INSERT:
Use the `edit` dictionary to modify and return a copy of the `document`. 
The `edit` dictionary will contain a `insert_text` key and string value, 
a `line_number` key and integer value, 
and a `start` key and integer value. 
Insert the `insert_text` into the line of the document corresponding to the `line_number` at the `start` index.

#### DELETE:
Use the `edit` dictionary to modify and return a copy of the `document`. 
The `edit` dictionary will contain a `line_number` key and integer value, 
a `start` key and integer value, 
and an `end` key and integer value. 
Remove the substring of the line of the document corresponding to the `line_number` between the `start` and `end` indexes.

#### Exceptions:
If the `edit_type` is none of the above, 
raise an `Exception` with the string `"Unknown edit type"`.

#### Tips
- Take a look at the test cases in the `main_test.py` file tab of the editor to see the input `documents` and `expected_outputs` to visualize what is happening for each operation.
- You can reuse the `substitute` function you create by wrapping it with the `insert` and `delete` functions.
- The `line_number` is zero-indexed, so the line numbers start at 0.
``` python
from enum import Enum


class EditType(Enum):
    NEWLINE = 1
    SUBSTITUTE = 2
    INSERT = 3
    DELETE = 4


def handle_edit(document, edit_type, edit):
    pass
```
# 
---
[[9.5_export-csv-challenge1]]
[[9.0_Sum-Types]]
